---
m-replication:
m-headings:
m-emDash:
m-italics:
m-images:
m-links:
m-equations:
m-structure:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
---

##### 130.01
Critical proximity occurs where there is angular transition from "falling back in" at 180-degree to 90-degree orbiting__which is precession. (Gravity may be described as "falling back in" at 180 degrees.) The quantity of energy that ceased to "fall in" is the system's entropy. Critical proximity is when it starts either "falling in" or going into orbit, which is the point where either entropy or antientropy begins.

##### 131.00
An aggregate of "falling ins" is a body. What we call an object or an entity is always an aggregate of interattracted entities; it is never a solid. And the critical proximity transition from being an aggregate entity to being a plurality of separate entities is precession, which is a "peeling off" into orbit rather than falling back in to the original entity aggregate. This explains entropy intimately. It also explains intimately the apparent energy losses in chemical transformations, associations, disassociations and high-order element disintegration into a plurality of lower-order elements__and nothing is lost. Entity has become invisible. The switch is precessional.

##### 132.00
The unprotected far side of the Moon has more craters of the "fallen-in" asteroids. Ergo, the far side weighs more than the near side, which is shielded by the Earth. The additional far-side weight of the Moon acts centrifugally to keep the weighted side always away from the Earth around which it orbits. Ergo, there is always one side, the same side, facing us. The Moon is always oriented toward us, like a ship that has its masts pointed inwardly toward us and its weighted keel away from us. This explains why the first photographs showed a greater number of craters on the far side of the Moon. The Earth acts as a shield. On Earth, the craters are not so concentrated because the Earth gets its cosmic fallout quite evenly. Earth's weight and massive pull are progressively increased to offset the Moon's farside weight increase and tendency otherwise to forsake Earth.

##### 133.00
"Solids" are simply the fraternities of the "fallen-into-one-anothers."

