---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---

# 631.00  Minimum of Four Points
##### 631.01
We cannot produce constructively and operationally a real experience- augmenting, omnidirectional system with less than four points. A fourth point cannot be in the plane approximately located, i.e., described, by the first three points, for the points have no dimension and are unoccupiable as is also the plane they "describe." It takes three points to define a plane. The fourth point, which is not in the plane of the first three, inherently produces a tetrahedron having insideness and outsideness, corresponding with the reality of operational experience.
##### 631.02
The tetrahedron has four unique planes described by the four possible relationships of its four vertexes and the six edges interconnecting them. In a regular tetrahedron, all the faces and all the edges are assumed to be approximately identical.
# 632.00 Dynamic Symmetry of the Tetrahedron
##### 632.01
There is a symmetry of the tetrahedron, but it is inherently four-dimensional and related to the four planes and the four axes projected perpendicularly to those planes from their respective subtending vertexes. But the tetrahedron lacks three-dimensional symmetry due to the fact that the subtending vertex is only on one side of the triangular plane, and due to the fact that the center of gravity of the tetrahedron is always only one- quarter of its altitude irrespective of the seeming asymmetry of the tetrahedron.
##### 632.02
The dynamic symmetry of the tetrahedron involves the inward projection of four geodesic connectors with the center of area of the triangular face opposite each vertex of the tetrahedron (regular or maxi-asymmetrical); which four vertex-to-opposite- triangle geodesic connectors will all pass through the center of gravity of the tetrahedron—regular, mini- or maxi-asymmetric; and the extension of those geodesics thereafter through the four centers of gravity of those four triangular planes, outwardly from the tetrahedron to four new vertexes equidistant outwardly from the three corners of their respective four basal triangular facet planes of the original tetrahedron. The four exterior vertexes are equidistant outwardly from the original tetrahedron, a distance equal to the interior distances between the centers of gravity of the original tetrahedron's four faces and their inwardly subtending vertexes. This produces four regular tetrahedra outwardly from the four faces of the basic tetrahedron and triple-bonded to the original tetrahedron.
##### 632.03
We have turned the tetrahedron inside out in four different directions and each one of the four are dimensionally similar. This means that each of the four planes of the tetrahedron produces four new points external to the original tetrahedron, and four similar tetrahedra are produced outwardly from the four faces of the original tetrahedron; these four external points, if interconnected, produce one large tetrahedron, whose six edges lie outside the four externalized tetrahedra's 12 external edges.
# 633.00 Negative Tetrahedron
##### 633.01
As we have already discovered in the vector equilibrium (see [[Sec. 480]]), each tetrahedron has its negative tetrahedron produced through its interior apex rather than through its outer triangular base. In the vector equilibrium, each tetrahedron has its negative tetrahedron corresponding in dynamic symmetry to its four-triangled, four- vertexed, fourfold symmetry requirement. And all eight (four positive and four negative) tetrahedra are clearly present in the vector equilibrium. Their vertexes are congruent at the center of the vector equilibrium. Each of the tetrahedra has one internal edge circumferentially congruent with the other tetrahedra's edge, and each of the tetrahedra's three internal edges is thus double-bonded circumferentially with three other tetrahedra, making a fourfold cluster in each hemisphere. This exactly balances a similarly bonded fourfold cluster in its opposite hemisphere, which is double-bonded to their hemisphere's fourfold cluster by six circumferentially double-bonded, internal edges. Because there are four equatorial planes of symmetry of the vector equilibrium, there are four different sets of the fourfold tetrahedra clusters that can be differentiated one from the others.
##### 633.02
Each of the eight tetrahedra symmetrically surrounding the nucleus of the vector equilibrium can serve as a nuclear domain energy valve, and each can accommodate 15 alternate intercouplings and three types of message contents; wherefore, the vector equilibrium cosmic nucleus system can accommodate 4 × 45 = 180 positive, and 4 × 45 = 180 negative, uniquely different energy—or information—transactions at four frequency levels each. We may now identify (a) the four positive-to-negative-to positive, triangular intershuttling transformings within each cube of the eight corner cubes of the two- frequency cube (see [Sec. 462] *et seq.*); with (b) the 360 nuclear tetrahedral information valvings as being cooperatively concurrent functions within the same prime nuclear domain of the vector equilibrium; they indicate the means by which the electromagnetic, omniradiant wave propagations are initially articulated.
# 634.00 Irreversibility of Negative Tetrahedral Growth
##### 634.01
When the dynamic symmetry is inside-outingly developed through the tetrahedron's base to produce the negatively balancing tetrahedron, only the four negative tetrahedra are externally visible, for they hide entirely the four positive triangular faces of the positive tetrahedron's four-base, four-vertex, fourfold symmetry. The positive tetrahedron is internally congruent with the four internally hidden, triangular faces of the four surrounding negative tetrahedra. This is fundamental irreversibility: the outwardly articulated dynamic symmetry is not regeneratively procreative in similar tetrahedral growth. The successive edges of the overall tetrahedron will never be rationally congruent with the edges of the original tetrahedron. This growth of dissimilar edges may bring about all the different frequencies of the different chemical elements.
# 635.00 Base-Extended Tetrahedron
##### 635.01
The tetrahedron extended through its face is pumpingly or diaphragmatically inside-outable, in contradistinction to the vertexially extended tetrahedron. The latter is single-bonded (univalent); the former is triple-bonded and produces crystal structures. The univalent, single-bonded universal joint produces gases.
# 636.00 Complementary to Vector Equilibrium
##### 636.01
In the vector equilibrium, we have all the sets of tetrahedra bivalently or edge-joined, i.e., liquidly, as well as centrally univalent. Synergetics calls the basally developed larger tetrahedron the *non-mirror-imaged complementary* of the vector equilibrium.² In vectorial-energy content and dynamic-symmetry content lies the complementarity.

(Footnote 2: The non-mirror-imaged complementary is not a negative vector equilibrium. The vector equilibrium has its own integral negative.)
# 637.00 Star Tetrahedron
##### 637.01
The name of this dynamic vector-equilibrium complementary tetrahedron is the *star tetrahedron*. The star tetrahedron is one in which the vectors are no longer equilibrious and no longer omnidirectionally and regeneratively extensible. This star tetrahedron name was given to it by Leonardo da Vinci.
##### 637.02
The star tetrahedron consists of five equal tetrahedra, four external and one internal. Because its external edges are not 180-degree angles, it has 18—instead of six—equi-vector external edges: 12 outwardly extended and six inwardly valleyed; ergo, a total of 18. It is a compound structure. Four of its five tetrahedra, which are nonoutwardly regenerative in unit-length vectors, ergo, non-allspace-filling, are in direct correspondence with the five four-ball tetrahedra which do close-pack to form a large, regular, three- frequency tetrahedron of four-ball edges, having one tetrahedral four-ball group at the center rather than an octahedral group as is the case with planar and linear topological phenomena. This is not really contradictory because the space inside the four-ball tetrahedron is always a small concave octahedron, wherefore, an octahedron is really at the center, though not an octahedron of six balls as at the center of a four, four-ball tetrahedral "pyramid."
# 638.00 Pulsation of Antitetrahedra
##### 638.01
The star tetrahedron is a structure—but it is a compound structure. The fifth tetrahedron, which is the original one, and only nuclear one accommodates the pulsations of the outer four. Its outward pulsings are broadcast, and its inward pulsings are repulsive—that is why it is a star. The four three-way—12 in total—external pulsations are unrestrained, and the internal pulsations are compressionally repulsed. Leonardo called it the star tetrahedron, not because it has points, but because he sensed intuitively that it gives off radiation like a star. The star tetrahedron is an impulsive-expulsive transceiver whose four, 12-faceted, exterior triangles can either (a) feed in cosmic energy receipts which spontaneously articulate one or another of the 15 interpairings of the six A, B, C, D, interior tetrahedron's couplings, or (b) transmit through one of the external tetrahedra whose respective three faces each must be refractively pulsated once more to beam or broadcast the 45 possible AA, AF, FF messages.
##### 638.02
There is a syntropic pulsation receptivity and an outward pulsation in dynamic symmetry of the star tetrahedron. As an energy radiator, it is entropic. It does not regenerate itself internally, i.e., gravitationally, as does the isotropic vector matrix's vector equilibrium. The star tetrahedron's entropy may be the basis of irreversible radiation, whereas the syntropic vector equilibrium's reversibility—inwardly-outwardly—is the basis for the gravitationally maintained integrity of Universe. The vector equilibrium produces conservation of omnidynamic Universe despite many entropic local energy dissipations of star tetrahedra. The star tetrahedron is in balance with the vector equilibrium—pumpable, irreversible, like the electron in behavior. It has the capability of self-positionability by converting its energy receipts to unique refraction sequences, which could change output actions to other dynamic, distances-keeping orbits, in respect to the—also only remotely existent and operating—icosahedron, and its 15 unique, great-circle self-dichotomizing; which icosahedra can only associate with other icosahedra in either linear-beam export or octahedral orbital hover-arounds in respect to any vector equilibrium nuclear group. (See [[Sec. 1052]].)
##### 638.03
The univalent antitetrahedra twist but do not pump. The singlebonded tetrahedra are also inside-outable, but by torque, by twist, and not by triangular diaphragm pumping. The lines of the univalent antitetrahedron are non-self-interfering. Like the lamp standards at Kennedy International Airport, New York, the three lines twist into plus (+) and minus (-) tetrahedra. MN and OP are in the same plane, with A and A\` on the opposite sides of the plane. So you have a *vertexial* inside-out twisting and a basal inside- out pumping.
##### 638.10
**Three Kinds of Inside-Outing**: Of all the Platonic polyhedra, only the tetrahedron can turn inside out. There are three ways it can do so: by single-, double-, and triple-bonded routes. In double-bonded, edge-to-edge inside-outing, there are pairs of diametric unfoldment of the congruent edges, and the diameter becomes the hinge of reverse positive and negative folding.
# 639.00 Propagation
##### 639.01
The star tetrahedron is nonreversible. It can only propagate outwardly. (The vector equilibrium can keep on reproducing itself inwardly or outwardly, gravitationally.) The star tetrahedron's four external tetrahedra cannot regenerate themselves; but they are external-energy-receptive, whether that energy be tensive or pressive. The star tetrahedron consists only of A Modules; it has no B Modules. The star tetrahedron may explain a whole new phase of energetic Universe such as, for instance, Negative Universe.
##### 639.02
The vector equilibrium's closest-packed sphere shell builds outwardly to produce successively the neutron and proton counts of the 92 regenerative chemical elements. The star tetrahedron may build negatives for the post-uraniums. The star tetrahedron's six potential geodesic interconnectors of the star tetrahedron's outermost points are out of vector-length frequency-phase and generate different frequencies each time they regenerate; they expand in size due to the self-bulging effects of the 15 energy message pairings of the central tetrahedron. Because their successive new edges are noncongruent with the edges of the original tetrahedron, the new edge will never be equal to or rational with the original edge. Though they produce a smooth-curve, ascending progression, they will always be shorter—but only a very little bit shorter—than twice the length of the original edge vectors. Perhaps this shortness may equate with the shortening of radial vectors in the transition from the vector equilibrium's diameter to the icosahedron's diameter. (See [[Sec. 460, Symmetrical Contraction of Vector Equilibrium]].) This is at least a contraction of similar magnitude, and mathematical analyses may show that it is indeed the size of the icosahedron's diameter. The new edge of the star tetrahedron may be the same as the reduced radius of the icosahedron. If it is, the star tetrahedron could be the positron, as the icosahedron seems to be the electron. These relationships should be experimentally and trigonometrically explored, as should all the energy-experience inferences of synergetics. The identifications become ever more tantalizingly close.