---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
structure: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---
# 750.10 Progressive Subdividing
##### 750.11
The progressive subdivision of a given metal fiber into a plurality of fibers provides tensile capabilities of the smaller fibers at increased magnitudes up to hundreds and thousandsfold that of the originally considered unit section. This is because of the increased surface-to-mass ratios and because all tensile capability of structure is inherently invested in the external beginnings of structural systems, which are polyhedra, with the strength enclosing the microcosm that the structural system inwardly isolates.
##### 750.12
Geodesic tensegrity spheres are capable of mathematical treatment in such a manner as to multiply the frequency of triangular modular subdivision in an orderly second-power progression. As relative polyhedral size is diminished, the surface decreases at a velocity of the second power of the linear-dimension shrinkage, while the system volume decreases at a velocity of the third power. Weight-per-surface area relates directly to the surface-to-volume rate of linear-size decrease or increase.
# 750.20  Unlimited Subdivisibility of Tensional Components
##### 750.21
The higher the frequency, the greater the proportion of the structure that is invested in tensional components. Tensional components are unlimited in length in proportion to their cross-section diameter-to-length ratios. As we increase the frequency, each tension member is parted into a plurality of fibers, each of whose strength is multiplied many times per unit of weight and section. If we increase the frequency many times, the relative overall weight of structures rapidly diminishes, as ratioed to any linear increase in overall dimension of structure.
##### 750.22
The only limit to frequency increase is the logistic practicality of more functions to be serviced, but the bigger the structure, the easier the local treatability of high-frequency components.
##### 750.23
In contrast to all previous structural experience, the law of diminishing returns is operative in the direction of decreasing size of geodesic tensegrity structures, and increasing return is realized in the direction of their increasing dimensions.

# 751.00  Pneumatic Model
##### 751.01
If the frequency is high enough, the size of the interstices of the tensegrity net may become so relatively small as to arrest the passage of any phenomena larger than the holes. If the frequency is high enough, neither water nor air molecules can pass through. The geodesic tensegrity may be designed to keep out the weather complex while admitting radar's microwaves and light from the Sun.
##### 751.02
If we raise the structural-system frequency sufficiently, we will decrease the residual compression islands to the microcosmic magnitude of atoms, which only serves to disclose that the atoms and their nuclei are themselves geodesic tensegrity structures, ergo, compatible with this ultimate frequency limit—a fact that is now, in the 1960s and \`70s, swiftly looming into the nuclear physicist's ken.
##### 751.03
We now comprehend that geodesic tensegrity structuring provides the first true and visualizable model of pneumatic structures in which the relative thickness of the enclosing films, in proportion to diameter, rapidly decreases with the increasing size of the balloons or spheric networks.
##### 751.04
In the case of geodesic tensegrity structures, no overcrowding of interior gas molecules, imprisoned within a submolecular mesh net, is necessary to thrust the net's structure outward from its spherical geometric center, because the compressional struts, locally islanded, as outward-thrusting struts at both their ends, push the spherical net outwardly at every vertexial advantage of network convergence. Geodesic tensegrities are the "hollowed-out" balloons discarding their redundantly "solid" air core.
##### 751.05
The geodesic tensegrity is a hollowed-out balloon in which those specific molecules of gas that happen to be impinging from within against the skin at any one moment (thus pushing it outwardly) are replaced by the islanded geodesic struts, and all other redundant molecules are discarded. It is possible to sew pockets on the inside surface of a balloon skin corresponding in pattern to the islanded tensegrity geodesic strut- end positions and to insert into those pockets stiff battens that cause the otherwise limp balloon bag to take spherical shape, as it would if filled with a pressured-in gas.
##### 751.06
Local stiffeners of skin suitable to preferred activities, at any structural focus, can be had by increasing the inward-outward angular strut depths and the local- surface-frequency patternings-thus thickening the truss depth without weight penalties. Here we have nature's own trick of local stiffening as accomplished by the higher- frequency, closest-packing pattern of isotropically moduled local cartilages, and even higher-frequency local bone structuring, as ratioed to the frequency of tissue cells of animal flesh.
##### 751.07
If we employ hydraulic pressure within the local islands of compression for dimensional stability, and if we employ gas molecules between the liquid molecules for local shock-load compressibility (ergo, flexibility), we will find that our geodesic tensegrity structures will in every way have taken advantage of the same structural- strategy principles employed by nature in all her sizes of biological formulations.
##### 751.08
Geodesic tensegrities are true pneumatic structures in purest design frequency principle. They obviate the randomness and redundance characterizing the work of designers dealing only with pneumatics who happen to be successful in blowing air into a bladder while being utterly dependent upon the subvisible behaviors of chemical phenomena. Geodesic tensegrity engineering enables discrete separation of all the structural events into two diametrically opposed magnitude classes: all the outward-bound phenomena which are too large to pass through all the interstices of all the inward-bound events in the too-small class. This is the same kind of redundancy that occurs in reinforced concrete which, if drilled out wherever redundant components exist, would disclose an orderly four-prime-magnitude complex octahedron-tetrahedron truss network, disencumbered of more than 50 percent of its weight.
##### 751.09
Tensegrity geodesic spheroids have none of the portal pressure-lock problems of "solid-oozing" pneumatic balloons. The pressure is discretely localized and locked in place by the tension net, and therefore it cannot escape.
##### 751.10
Tensegrity geodesic spheroids may have several frequencies simultaneously—a low-frequency major web and a high-frequency minor local web. If they are of sufficiently high frequency of secondary or minor webbing to exclude atmospheric molecules, they may be partially vacuumized; that is, they may be made air- floatable.