---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-structure:
---
##### 501.01
The greatest of all the faculties is the ability of the imagination to formulate conceptually. Conceptuality is subjective; realization is objective. Conceptuality is metaphysical and weightless; reality is physical.
##### 501.02
Definition requires conceptuality. All local systems are conceptual. Conceptual totality is inherently prohibited. There is systematic conceptuality within the totality, but it is always cosmically partial.
##### 501.03
The artist was right all the time. Nature is conceptual. This is the difference between visibility and invisibility. The invisible does not mean nonconceptual. Conceptuality is independent of visibility or invisibility. You can have conceptuality, or an understanding of the principles, independent of size, which makes it possible to conceive of events as they occur at magnitudes that would be subvisible or supravisible. Conceptuality operates experimentally, independent of size. Size alone can come to zero, not conceptuality.
##### 501.04
Conceptuality requires the generalization of patterns gleaned from special- case experiences and thus defines the basic event experiences that constitute structure.
##### 501.05
We may think conceptually of assemblies of triangles or basic, generalized, structural arrangements that will hold true at either an atomic-nucleus size or a super- galaxy size, because all angularly defined systems are conceptually independent of the relative sizes of special-case experiences.
##### 501.06
There is no half-profile of you. All conceptuality is systemic; it has to be finitely closed. Conceptuality has to have both frequency and angle. The angle part has to do with the circuitry design.
##### 501.07
*Momentarily conceptual* means standing dynamically together like star groups. (See [[Sec. 324.00, Scenario Universe]], and [[Sec. 510, Star Events]].) *Aggregate* means nonunitarily conceptual as of any one moment.
##### 501.08
We may hypothesize that information as it increases exponentially—explodes. Conceptuality implodes, becoming increasingly more simplified.
# 501.10 Omnidirectional Halo
##### 501.101
Any conceptual thought is a system and is structured tetrahedrally. This is because all conceptuality is polyhedral. The sums of all the angles around all the vertexes—even crocodile, or a 10,000-frequency geodesic (which is what the Earth really is) —will always be 720 degrees less than the number of vertexes times 360 degrees.
##### 501.11
The difference between nonconceptual, nonsimultaneous Universe and *thinkability* is always two tetrahedra: one as macro, to complete the convex localness outside the system, and one as micro, to complete the concave localness inside the system, to add up to finite but nonconceptual Universe. Thus the thinkable system takeout from Universe has a "left-out" outside irrelevancy tetrahedron and a "left-in" inside irrelevancy tetrahedron.
##### 501.12
You have to have the starkly nonvisible to provide the complementary tetrahedron to account for the visibility, since concave and convex are not the same. That stark invisible reality of the nonconceptual macro- and micro-tetrahedra also have to have this 720-degree elegance. But the invisible outside tetrahedron was equally stark. The finite but nonconceptual inness and outness: that is the Omnidirectional Halo.
##### 501.13
Complementarity requires that where there is conceptuality, there must be nonconceptuality. The explicable requires the inexplicable. Experience requires the nonexperienceable. The obvious requires the mystical. This is a powerful group of paired concepts generated by the complementarity of conceptuality. Ergo, we can have annihilation and yet have no energy lost; it is only locally lost.
##### 501.131
**Omnidirectional Halo**: Every time we have annihilation into eternity, it is not lost in principle; it is only locally lost in the relative inaccuracy that we must have to differentiate and to have awareness.
##### 501.14
The invisibility of negative Universe may seem a discrepancy, but only because the conceptual is such a fantastically limited part of the total, not just in the electromagnetic spectrum range, but in metaphysical, cosmic thinkability itself.
# 501.20 Cosmic Timetable of Cyclic Events
##### 501.21
An angle is a convergent-divergent pattern: in terms of human experience it is a directionally focused happening—an event—an eVe-nt—a conVening—interference eVent whose V-angle of conVergence is a linear crossing fiX and, as such, is mentally conceptual and finitely think-about-able independent of the outwardly extendable length of the two lines. Even though the lines diverge outwardly—inferentially toward infinity—the angle formed by their inwardly converging lines is finite.
##### 501.22
By the same logic a triangle or three-angled polygon is not only thinkably conceptual independent of size, but all its lines also terminate in angular convergences. Ergo, the triangle has no loose ends; the triangle is integrally and comprehensively finite. The triangle demonstrates finite conceptuality independent of time-sizing.
##### 501.23
Conceptuality is always referenced to previous experience. The triangle is conceptually independent of time-sizing because it is a generalization of many triangular experiences. All of Euler's generalized topological trio of *vertexes*, *races*, and *edge*—his irreducible family of three unique geometrical aspects and their respectively unique constancies of always-and-only-co-occurring relative abundance V + F = E + 2—are all conceptually finite and considerable independent of special-case geometric shaping and sizing.
##### 501.24
The relative size of any phenomenon is measurable only in time, for it takes time to measure. The relative magnitudes or microtudes of phenomena are measurable in equal, elapsed-time-per-whole-cycle increments relative to a specified cyclic system. (See Secs. [[265.08]] through [[265.13]], [[526.23]], and [[1033.601]].) The prime time increments and their respective frequency of recurrence within specific cyclic periods as employed by science are those of the only-gravitationally-intercohered galactic and nuclear systems. The celestial galaxies and the atomic nuclei alike are axially and orbitally unrestrained angular momentums of independently operative energy substances. The relative frequencies of the macrocelestial and microatomic systems and their local, individual, integral, inwardly-outwardly-pulsative, intertransforming characteristics have been reliably and informedly measured and interreferenced to constitute the cosmic timetable of cyclic events.

