---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2:
e-issues:
---
##### 502.01
Experience is the raw material of science.
##### 502.02
It is the nature of all our experiences that they begin and end. They are packaged. Our experiences, both physical and metaphysical, are all finite because they all begin and end. Experience is always special-case. Special cases are all biterminal, i.e., having both beginning and ending.
##### 502.03
**Complexity**: Experiences are never elementary; ergo, they are always complex. The concept *one* as unity is available only in respect to one-half of twoness. There is no experience without the finite furniture of twoness.
##### 502.04
Thinking is inherently exclusive. Experience, which comes before thinking, is inherently inclusive.
##### 502.05
Experience is always special case but always governed by generalized laws. Among the generalized laws governing experience is the law that there are three directional aspects of all experience: in, out, and around. These directions manifest an inward-outward pulsing and a surface-articulated patterning. The pulsing patterning has six consequences:

1. the change in size wave frequency;
2. the plurality of precessionally induced surface vertex-vortex rotations of the expansive-contractive pulsations acting as omninonpolar vertex, alternately winding and unwinding, alternately and symmetrically to take in the slack of the contracting system or unwinding locally to permit symmetrical expansion;
3. the inherent axial rotation of the whole system;
4. the inherent orbitally occasioned surface changings occasioned by external forces operating precessionally upon the conceptual system considered;
5. the precessionally induced inside-outing transformations; and
6. the local-surface spiral wrinklings caused by axial torque; i.e., when opposite poles rotate in opposite directions (as with the Earth's clockwise rotation of high-pressure, clear-weather atmospheric motions and the counterclockwise, spirally wrinkled, cloud-cover pattern of the low-pressure stormy weather in the Northern Hemisphere and the oppositely spiraling behaviors in the Southern Hemisphere in respect to the same fair and stormy weather conditions).
##### 502.10
Many years ago, I developed a system of question-asking in which I ruled that I must always answer the questions from experience. My answers must not be based on hearsay, beliefs, axioms, or seeming self-evidence.
##### 502.11
It has been part of my experience that there are others who, while experiencing what I was experiencing, were able to describe what we mutually were experiencing as well as, or better than, I could. Therefore, my experience taught me that I could trust the reporting of some others as reliable data to be included in my "answering" resources. For instance, I could include the experimentally derived data of scientists.
##### 502.12
I am willing to accredit the experiences of other men when I am convinced by my experiences that they communicate to me faithfully; that is, I am able to enlarge my experience by the experience of others.
##### 502.13
Certainly, my experience and your experience includes the fact that we dream. This doesn't have to be realized reality. There may be people who lie to you, but manipulation of the data doesn't alter your determination to rely upon experience, for it now becomes a part of your experience that some people lie, and you learn which ones are reliable as suppliers of your experience inventorying. Our experience includes the becoming. It includes the multiplication of experiences. It includes dichotomy.
##### 502.20
All experiences are finitely furnished with differentiated cognitions, recognitions, and comprehensions. The finite furniture consists of widely ranging degrees of comprehensive constellar complexities.
##### 502.21
Experience is inherently discontinuous and islanded. Each special experience represents a complex of generalized principles operative in local-angle and frequency- modulated realizations.
##### 502.22
Among the irreversible succession of self-regenerative human events are experiences, intuitions, speculations, experiments, discoveries, and productions. Because experience always alters previous experience, the process is both irreversible and nonidentically repetitive.
##### 502.23
Since experience is finite, it can be stored, studied, directed, and turned with conscious effort to human advantage. This means that evolution pivots on the conscious, selective use of cumulative human experience and not on Darwin's hypothesis of chance adaptation to survival nor on his assumption of evolution independent of individual will and design.
##### 502.24
Consciousness is experience. Experience is complex consciousness of being, of self coexisting with all the nonself. Experience is plural and nonsimultaneous. Experience is recurrent consciousness of sequences of self reexperiencing similar events. Reexperienced consciousness is recognition. Re-cognitions generate identifications. Re- cognition of within-self rhythms of heartbeat or other identities generates a matrix continuum of time consciousness upon which, as on blank music lines, are superimposed all the observances by self of the nonself occurrences.
##### 502.25
Experience is inherently omnidirectional; ergo, there is not just one "other." There are always at least twelve "others." The connection between the six degrees of freedom and omnidirectionality is, of course, the vector equilibrium. Pulsation in the vector equilibrium is the nearest thing we will ever know to eternity and god: the zerophase of conceptual integrity inherent in the positive and negative asymmetries that propagate the problems of consciousness evolution. Our inherently limited perceptivity requires these definitions of the asymmetric emphasis of experience. Experience is inherently terminal, partial, and differentiable: the antithesis of eternal integrity
# 502.30 Experimentally Demonstrable vs. Axiomatic
##### 502.31
The difference between synergetics and conventional mathematics is that it is derived from experience and is always considerate of experience, whereas conventional mathematics is based upon "axioms" that were imaginatively conceived and that were inconsiderate of information progressively harvested through microscopes, telescopes, and electronic probings into the nonsensorially tunable ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. Whereas *solids*, *straight lines*, *continuous surfaces*, and *infinity* seemed imaginatively obvious, i.e., axiomatic; physics has discovered none of the foregoing to be experimentally demonstrable. The imaginary "abstraction" was so logical, valid, and obviously nonsolid, nonsubstantial in the preinstrumentally-informed history of the musings of man that the mathematician assumed abstraction to be systemic conceptuality, i.e., metaphysical absolutely devoid of experience: He began with oversight.
# 502.40 The "Purely Imaginary Straight Line"
##### 502.41
In speaking of his "purely imaginary straight line," the mathematician uses four words, all of which were invented by man to accommodate his need to communicate his experience to self or others:
*Purely*: This word comes from the relativity of man's experiences in relation to impurities or "undesirable presences."
*Imaginary*: "Image-inary" means man's communication of what he thinks it is that he thinks his brain is doing with the objects of his experience. His discovery of general conceptual principles characterizing all of his several experiences—as the rock having insideness and outsideness, the many pebbles having their corners knocked off and developing roundness—means that there could be pure "roundness" and thus he imagined a perfect sphere.
*Straight*: Man's experiences with curvilinear paths suggested that the waviness could be reduced to straightness, but there was naught in his experience to validate that nonexperienced assumption. Physics finds only waves. Some are of exquisitely high frequency, but inherently discontinuous because consisting of separate event packages. They are oscillating to and from negative Universe, that is to say, in pulsation.
*Line*: Line is a *leading*, the description of man's continual discovery of the angularly observable directional sequences of events. Lines are trajectories or traceries of event happenings in respect to the environmental events of the event happening.
# 502.50 Experiment
##### 502.51
A voluntary experience is an *experiment*. To be experimental, we must have an observer and the observed, the articulator and the articulated. Experiences include experiments: there are experimentally demonstrable cyclic regularities, such as frequencies of the occurrence of radiation emissions of various atomic isotopes, which become the fundamental time increment references of relative size measurement of elemental phenomena.
# 502.60 Happening
##### 502.61
An involuntary experience is a happening. To be experiential, to have a happening, we must have an observer and the observed.