---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2:
e-issues:
---
##### 506.01
A knot in a spliced rope consisting successively of manila, cotton, wool, or nylon may be progressively slipped along the spliced-together rope with all the latter's material changes of thickness, color, and texture along its length. We agree that the "knot" is not really any of these locally traversed substances. They were just so many colors and tactile experiences whose pattern displacement reported something moving through as a locally recurring pattern configuration. The knot is not the rope; it is a weightless, mathematical, geometric, metaphysically conceptual, pattern integrity tied momentarily into the rope by the knot-conceiving, weightless mind of the human conceiver—knot- former.
##### 506.02
What we call the rope itself turns out to be wave phenomena. The fibers themselves were humanly twisted into a spiral wave phenomenon. We are beginning to discover that there is not too much difference between the tactile superficiality of apprehension and the real frequency phenomena that we cannot see in the intervals between the waves. The actual fact is that the water wave and the manila wave are frequencies nontunable within the electromagnetic frequency range of the human organism's optical faculties, wherefore human cognition of the water waves is provided exclusively by the human brain's afterimage lag and the brain's successive recall apprehending of static picture frames of successively different pattern states as moving pictures.
##### 506.10
I'll bet a monkey can't invent a knot. If they could, they would tie the whole jungle up in knots. What would the behaviorists say? Mind saw the knot; monkey did not. The monkeys hold hands, but they have not yet discovered that the handshake is two circles knotted through one another.
##### 506.11
You cannot have a knot with less than two circles (two finite unities). The mind tells the brain to control the muscles in a knot-tying event scenario as follows: one hand grasps the rope end and describes the first circle. When the first circle is complete, the second hand holds the completed circle as the first hand continues to lead the rope end through the center of the first circle in an orbital plane different from that of the first circle. (If they were both in the same plane, they would generate a coil or a spiral and fail to knot.) The perimeter of the second circle should go through the center of the first circle. One has to capture the other in an interference pattern.
##### 506.12
The rope with the knot in it is a physical memory pattern tracery of where your hands have led its end. The hand-led rope end and its pulled-through rope section form a visibly sustained trajectory of the conceptual patterning employed by mind in negotiating its visual realization by the brain-coordinated sensing of self or others. Like the contrails of jet planes, in the sky, the smoke trails of skywriting airplanes, or the extruded plastic threads of spiders, the roped knot represents a long-lasting memorandum of the abstract, weightless mind's weightless conceptioning in pure principle.
##### 506.13
Each circle has 360 degrees; the two interference circles that comprise the minimum knot always involve 720 degrees of angular change in the hand-led pattern, just as the total angles of the four triangles of a tetrahedron add up to 720 degrees. The hands describe circles nonsimultaneously; the result is a progression. The knot is the same 720- degree angular value of a minimum structural system in Universe, as is the tetrahedron.
##### 506.14
Pulling on the two ends of the knotted rope causes the knot to contract. This is a form of interference wave where the wave comes back on itself, and as a consequence of any tension in it, the knot gets tighter. This is one of the ways in which the energy-mass patterns begin to tighten up. It is self-tightening. This is the essence of "matter" as a consequence of two circles of 720 degrees tending to annihilate or lose one's self. Tetrahedron creates an insideness. Knot attempts to annihilate it. The knot is a tetrahedron or a complex of tetrahedra. Yin-Yang is a picture of a minimum tetrahedron knot interference tying. (See [[Sec. 505.21]].)
##### 506.15
At the end of the piece of rope, we make a metaphysical disconnect and a new set of observations is inaugurated, each consisting of finite-quanta integral ingredients such as the time quality of all finite-energy quanta.
##### 506.20
The metabolic flow that passes through a man is not the man. He is an abstract pattern integrity that is sustained through all his physical changes and processing, a knot through which pass the swift strands of concurrent ecological cycles—recycling transformations of solar energy.
##### 506.30
As curves—lines—cannot reenter or "join back into themselves," the circling line can only wrap around or pass over or under another "part" of its continuity self, as the knot-making sailors says it. Because of a line's inability to reenter itself, when circles are followed around and around upon themselves, the result is a coil—which is a mildly asymmetric spiral wave accumulation that may be piled upon its micro-diameter self only as long as intellect wishes to pursue such an experiential investigation.
# 506.40 Yin-Yang
##### 506.41
Each lobe of a baseball is simply a precessed triangle of a tetrahedron. The baseball is yin-yang, not in a plane but in Universe: it is telling us that complementarities interprecess omnidirectionally and not just in a plane, as the planar yin-yang suggests.
##### 506.42
The spherical tetrahedron can be demonstrated by placing a light inside a translucent plastic sphere. The light at the system center casts the shadow lines of the tetrahedron's four vertexes and their six interconnecting edges outwardly and symmetrically onto the plastic sphere to produce the outlines of a spherical tetrahedron. We may then inscribe four circles around each of the four vertexes of the spherical tetrahedron of such a unit radius so that each of the four circles is tangent to each of the three others. We can take a sharp-edged cutting tool and severingly trace around the perimeter of one circle to its point of tangency with the next adjacent circle, and there we can inflect the cutting tool to cut around the next tangent circle to its next point of tangency, where once more we can inflect the cutting tool's severance trace to follow around the next circle to reach the next tangent point, repeating the procedure until we finally return to the point of original cutting. Upon completion of the severance tracing we find we have cut apart the surface of the spherical tetrahedron into two similar, equiarea sections, each of which corresponds to the two similar, dumbbell-profiled, skin sections of a baseball. With these two similar half-sphere surface sections precessingly aimed toward one another in such a manner that the bulge of one section registers symmetrically with the half-circle opening on the other, we find that we can sew the edges of the sections together around a core to produce a baseball.
##### 506.43
When you look at the baseball with the inflection point of its S-pattern stitching, located at the center of the visible hemisphere's circular profile, aimed directly at you, you will see that the baseball's surface pattern is the same inflection pattern as that of the most profound symbol of the orient: yin-yang. Long ago human minds of the orient must have discovered precession, tetrahedra, and symmetry. (See [[Sec. 1056.12]].)

