---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2:
e-issues:
---

##### 508.01
Numbers are experiences. You have one experience and another experience, which, when reviewed, are composited. Numbers have unique experiential meaning. The minimum structural systems of Universe, the tetrahedron and the thinkable set, both consist of four points and their six unique interrelatednesses. Even the development of sets derives from experience. Mathematics is generalization, a third-degree generalization that is a generalization of generalizations. But generalization itself is sequitur to experience where intuition and mind discover the synergetic interbehavior that is not implicit in any single item of the empirical data of the past.
##### 508.02
Intuition and mind apprehend that which is comprehensively between, and not of, the parts.
##### 508.03
The mathematician talks of "pure imaginary numbers" on the false assumption that mathematics could cerebrate a priori to experience. "Lines" are definitions of experiences—of graven traceries, or of erosively deposited tracks, or of gaseous fallout along a trajectory—and the symbols for number extractions, such as X and Y, are always and only experientially conceived devices.
##### 508.04
All number awareness is discovered through experiences, which are all special cases. Every time you write a number—every time you say, write, or read a number—you see resolvable clusters of light differentiation. And clusters are an experience. Conscious thoughts of numbers, either subjective or objective, are always special-case.
##### 508.10
Before topology, mathematicians erroneously thought that they had attained utter abstraction or utter nonconceptuality—ergo, "pure" nonsensoriality—by employing a series of algebraic symbols substituted for calculus symbols and substituted for again by "empty-set" symbols. They overlooked the fact that even their symbols themselves were conceptual patterns and only recognizable that way. For instance, numbers or phonetic letters consist of physical ingredients and physical-experience recalls, else they would not have become employable by the deluding, experience-immersed "purists. "
##### 508.20
(N² - N) / 2 is always a triangular number as, for instance, the number of balls in the rack on a pool table. A telephone connection is a circuit; a circuit is a circle; two people need one circuit and three people need three circles, which make a triangle. Four people need six circuits, and six circuits cluster most economically and symmetrically in a triangle. Five people need 10 private circuits, six people need 15, and seven people need 21, and so on: all are triangular numbers. (See [[Sec. 227, Order Underlying Randomness]], and [[illustration 227.01]].)
##### 508.30
Successive stackings of the number of relationships of our experiences are a stacking of triangles. The number of balls in the longest row of any triangular cluster will always be the same number as the number of rows of balls in the triangle, each row always having one more than the preceding row. The number of balls in any triangle will always be

$$
\frac{(R + 1)^2 - (R + 1)}{2}
$$

(where R = the number of rows (or the number of balls in the longest row). (See [[Sec. 230, Tetrahedral Number]].)