---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2: false
e-issues:
p-structure: false
---


##### 518.01
Though lines (subvisibly spiraling and quantitatively pulsative) cannot go through the same point at the same time, they can sometimes get nearer or farther from one another. They can get into what we call "critical proximity." Critical proximity is the distance between interattracted masses—when one body starts or stops "falling into" the other and instead goes into orbit around its greater neighbor, i.e., where it stops yielding at 180 degrees and starts yielding to the other at 90 degrees. (See [[Sec. 1009]].)
##### 518.02
Critical proximity would be, for instance, the relative interpositioning of the distances of the Moon-Earth team's Sun co-orbiting wherein there is a complex mass- attraction hookup. When at critical proximity the 180-degree mass attraction takes over and one starts falling into the other—with the attraction fourfolded every time the distance between them is halved—they establish a mass-attraction, relative-proximity "contact" bond and interoperate thereafter as a "universal joint"—or a locally autonomous motion freedoms' joint. Either body is free to carry on individual, local, angular-relationship- changing motions and transformations by itself, such as revolving and precessing. But without additional energy from elsewhere being applied to their interrelationship, they cannot escape their critical proximity to one another as they co-orbit together around the Sun—with which they are in common critical proximity.
##### 518.03
Critical proximity occurs at the precessional moment at which there is a 90- degree angular transition of interrelationship of the two bodies from a 180-degree falling- back-in to a 90-degree orbiting direction, *or vice versa*. (See [[Sec. 1009.63]].)
##### 518.04
The transition of physical phenomena from being an apparent unit entity to being an apparent complex, or constellation of a plurality of entities, is that of the individual components reaching the critical proximity precessional condition and "peeling off " into individual orbits from their previous condition of falling back into one another under nonangularly differentiable entity conditions. This is the difference between an apparent "stone" and its crushed-apart "dust" parts.
##### 518.05
Critical proximity explains mass-attraction coherence. It accounts for all the atoms either falling into one another or precessing into local orbits. This accounts for the whole Universe as we observe it, the collections of things and matter and noncontiguous space intervals. The coming-apart phase of critical proximity is radiation. The coming- together and holding-together phase is emphasized in our ken as gravity.
##### 518.06
Critical proximity is a threshold, the absolute vector equilibrium threshold; if it persists, we call it "matter."