---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-links-2:
m-issues:
---
##### 519.01
What we really mean by a point is an unresolved definition of an activity. A point by itself does not enclose. There are no indivisible points.
##### 519.02
Without insideness, there is no outsideness; and without either insideness or outsideness, there is only a locus fix. Ergo, "points" are inherently nondemonstrable, and the phenomena accommodated by the packaged word *point* will always prove to be a focal center of differentiating events. A locus fix constitutes conceptual genesis that may be realized in time. Any conceptual event in Universe must have insideness and outsideness. This is a fundamentally self-organizing principle.
##### 519.03
Points are complex but only as yet nondifferentiably resolvable by superficial inspection. A star is something you cannot resolve. We call it a point, playing Euler's game of crossings. One locus fix does not have an insideness and an outsideness. It takes four to define insideness and outsideness. It is called a point only because you cannot resolve it. Two remotely crossing trajectories have no insideness or outsideness, but do produce optically observable crossings, or locus fixes, that are positionally alterable in respect to a plurality of observation points. A point's definitively unresolved event relationships inherently embrace potential definitions of a complex of local events. When concentrically and convergently resolved, the "point" proves to be the "center" —the zero moment of transition from going inwardly and going outwardly.
##### 519.10
Physical points are energy-event aggregations. When they converge beyond the critical fall-in proximity threshold, they orbit coordinatedly, as a Universe-precessed aggregate, as loose pebbles on our Earth orbit the Sun in unison, and as chips ride around on men's shoulders. A "point" often means "locus of inflection" when we go beyond the threshold of critical proximity and the *inness* proclivity prevails, in contradistinction to the differentiable other fallen-in aggregates orbiting precessionally in only mass-attractively cohered remoteness outwardly beyond the critical-proximity threshold.
##### 519.20
If light or any other experiential phenomenon were instantaneous, it would be less than a point.
##### 519.21
A point on a sphere is never an infinitesimal tangency with a plane.
##### 519.22
The domains of vertexes are spheres.
##### 519.30
For every event-fixed locus in Universe, there are six uniquely and exclusively operative vectors. (See [[Sec. 537, Twelve Universal Degrees of Freedom]].)

