---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-links-2:
m-issues:
---

##### 524.01
We experience events and no-events. Ergo, we invent *novent.* Novents characterize the finite but nonsensorial remote masses' interattraction, i.e., the gravitational continuum.
##### 524.02
Seeming "space" is the absence of energy events. The word space as a noun misleadingly implies properties that are altogether lacking.
##### 524.03
All of our experiences are periodically terminated: the termination characterizes both the physical and the metaphysical aspects of our observing faculties and the observed phenomena. There are no experimentally known continuums. Physics has found no "solids." We have only *awake* or *asleep——experience* or *nonexperience —* occurrence durations and nonoccurrence intervals; either discrete and unique packages of energy or thought, on the one hand, or of nonenergy or nonthought, on the other hand. Each and all of these are as uniquely differentiable, and as separable, from one another as are the individual stars of the Milky Way.
##### 524.04
The nonevent continuum is the novent. The novent continuum permeates the finitely populated withinness and comprises the finite novent withoutness. Novent is the finite but nonsensorial continuum. (See Sec. [[905.20]].)
# 524.10 In and Out
##### 524.101
There are no specific directions or localities in Universe that may be opposingly designated as *up* or *down.* In their place, we must use the words *out* and *in.* We move *in* toward various individual energy-event concentrations, or we move *out* from them. But the words *in* and *out* are not mirror-image opposites. *In* is a specific direction toward any one local individual system of Universe. *Out* is not a direction; *out* is nondirectional because it is anydirectional.
##### 524.11
You are always *in* Universe. You cannot *get* out of Universe. All the word *out* means is that you are not inside a system. You can only get *out* of systems.
##### 524.12
*In* designates individual experience foci. Foci are *in,* because focusable, but always, as entropy shows, temporary. Relationships exist between the *ins* because they are definable. *Out* is common to all; *out* is timeless; *out* is not really packaged.
##### 524.13
*In* is discrete; *out* is general. The *ins* are discontinuous; the *outs* are continuous. *Out* is nothingness, i.e., nonexperience. Only the nonexperience nothingness constitutes continuum.
##### 524.14
*In* is temporal; *out* is eternal. *Ins* are knowable; *outs* are unknowable. *In* is individually, uniquely identifiable; *out,* though total, inherently integral, and finite, is nonidentifiable. *In* is individually, uniquely directional; *out* is any, all, and no direction. *Out* is all directions; even when temporarily inward toward center, it passes beyond the center to eventual outness.
# 524.20 Areas: Faces
##### 524.21
It is experimentally demonstrable that an apparent "plane" is a "surface" area of some structural system. There are no experimentally demonstrable continuums. All that has been found is discontinuity, as in star constellations or atomic nuclear arrays. Areas are discontinuous by constructional definition. Areas, as system "faces," are inherently empty of actions or events, and therefore are not "surfaces."
# 524.30 Openings
##### 524.31
There are no surfaces. Therefore, there are no areas. So Euler's topological aspects have to be altered to read: "Lines" = *trajectories;* "vertexes" = *crossings;* and "areas" = *openings,* i.e., where there are no trajectories or crossings.
##### 524.32
When three or more "lines," "vectors," or *trajectories* each cross two others, we have an *opening.* Our definition of an opening is that it is surrounded, i.e., framed, by trajectories.
##### 524.33
Every trajectory in a system will have to have at least two crossings. These are always *as viewed,* because the lines could be at different levels from other points of observation.

