---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2: false
e-issues:
p-structure: false
---


##### 525.01
If subvisibly modulated spiraling wave lines cannot go through the same point at the same time, there can be no continuous, perfectly level planes. Planes are not experimentally demonstrable. Solids are not experimentally demonstrable. Physical experiment has never discovered any phenomena other than discontinuous discrete-energy events, each uniquely identifiable amongst the gamut of frequencies of cyclic discontinuity of all the physical phenomena, as comprehensively and overlappingly arrayed in the vast frequency ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. The electromagnetic spectrum "reality" has been found experimentally to embrace all known physical phenomena: visible, subvisible, or ultravisible thus far detected as present in Universe. There are no solids. The synergetic behavior of structures satisfactorily explains as discontinuous that which we have in the past superficially misidentified as "solid."
##### 525.02
For a microscopic example of our spontaneous and superficial misapprehending and miscomprehending environmental events, we must concede that both theoretically and experimentally we have now learned and "know" that there are no "solids," no continuous surfaces, only Milky Way-like aggregations of remotely interdistanced atomic events. Nonetheless, society keeps right on seeing, dealing, and superficially cerebrating in respect to "things" called "solids" or "matter."
##### 525.03
Take the simple word *solid*. We have physics of the "solid state," a very late phase of physics very improperly called "solid." Even in solid state, the voids between the atoms are as voids of interstellar space. The nucleus itself is as empty as space itself. But the concept "solid" was a comfortable kind of concept, not easy to jettison.
# 525.10 Frequency and Interval
##### 525.11
Mass is a statement of relative event frequency per volume. For example, there may be something too massive for me to put my finger through because it has too high an event frequency.