---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2: false
e-issues:
p-structure: false
---

##### 526.01
There is no universal space or static space in Universe. The word space is conceptually meaningless except in reference to intervals between high-frequency events momentarily "constellar" in specific local systems. There is no shape of Universe. There is only omnidirectional, nonconceptual "out" and the specifically directioned, conceptual "in." We have time relationships but not static-space relationships.
##### 526.02
Time and space are simply functions of velocity. You can examine the time increment or the space increment separately, but they are never independent of one another.
##### 526.03
Space is the absence of events, metaphysically. Space is the absence of energy events, physically.
##### 526.04
The atmosphere's molecules over any place on Earth's surface are forever shifting position. The air over the Himalayas is enveloping California a week later. The stars now *overhead* are *underfoot* twelve hours later. The stars themselves are swiftly moving in respect to one another. Many of them have not been where you see them for millions of years; many burnt out long ago. The Sun's light takes eight minutes to reach us. We have relationships—but not space.
##### 526.05
You cannot get out of Universe. You are always in Universe. (See [[Sec. 320, Scenario Universe]]. See [[Sec. 524, Novent]].)
# 526.10 Systematic Inclusion and Exclusion of Space

[526.10-526.35 Space Scenario]

##### 526.101
Space is the antithesis of solid. Both are misnomers. *Solid* (or *mass*) refers to locals of too high an event frequency for our physical members to penetrate or conceivably tune in. *Space* refers to locals of an event frequency per volume too low for our apprehending equipment to tune in.
##### 526.11
Space is systemic inadvertency. Space is all the observer's untuned-in information.
##### 526.12
Space is the inescapable awareness of unaccounted otherness: the otherness is unconsidered but always and only co-occurrent with system considerations.
##### 526.13
Space is finite as a complementary of finite Scenario Universe. As a co- occurrent, complementary function of finite but non-unitarily-conceptual and non- unitarily-tune-in-able Scenario Universe, space is finite. Space does not have *de*finable properties. Only systems have definable characteristics.
##### 526.14
The cognitive awareness of space derives from definition of system characteristics whose topological interrelationships inherently and oherently divide Universe into insideness microcosmic space and outsideness macrocosmic space. Systems have 32 topological characteristics (enumerated at [[Sec. 1044]]).
##### 526.15
Systems capture. Systems exclude. Systems capture all the special case, twilight-zone, only-grossly-tuned-in but as-yet-differentially-undefinable, outwardly neighboring "otherness" systems as well as all the inward, untunable, nonsystem space. Systems exclude the twilight zone of only-partially-tuned-out, no-longer-differentially- definable, outwardly neighboring otherness systems as well as all the outward, untunable, nonsystem space. Systems capture all the infratunable, concentric tween-waves that are too-high-frequency for experience-intuited-expectancy space nothingness and exclude all the ultratunable, concentric tween-waves that are too-lowfrequency for experience- intuited-expectancy space nothingness.
##### 526.16
"Solids" are the frequencies that are too high for differential tune-in-ability. Space is the integral of all the frequencies that are too low for tune-in-ability.
##### 526.17
Included spaces and excluded spaces are both concentric. Tuning = dismissal of irrelevancies. Those too large and of too low frequency are dismissed omnidirectionally. Those too small and of too high frequency are dismissed inwardly. The tuning phenomenon is either inward or omnidirectional .
##### 526.18
Insideness is the captured nothingness. Insideness becomes the conceptually embraced, system-defined space. Outsideness is the conceptual-system-defined, outwardly uncaptured nothingness. Without systems there can be no space awareness. (Compare [[Sec.1053.824]].) Systems are awareness concepts. Space is nonconceptual awareness.
##### 526.19
Space is a finite but nondefinable complementary relationship function of the definability of singular or plural system characteristics and their interrelationships. System is all the relevant thought, all the think-about-ableness. Space is all the unthink-about-able irrelevancy.
##### 526.191
Space is the aggregate of all the vector equilibrium nulls of all magnitudes and frequencies of all isotropic vector matrixes always potentially articulatable in all directions from any point of origin.
# 526.20 Visual Aspects of Space
##### 526.21
Where there is no radiation, there is no light. If it had always been "night," I doubt that people would have invented the word *space*. At night you have no sense of otherness—no sense of space complementation of system-defining limits. Space is a "visual" word, touch being an ultra-highfrequency "visualization."
##### 526.22
Space is concentric and multisystem partitionable. Space is never linear. It takes four events to define three intervals. The special case events appear to be linear only because they are always successively experienced. Potential periodicity—special case, time-size—is initially cognizable when recurring after the same interval as that recalled as existing between the first and second similar systemic events experienced, but only upon the third recurrence of the similar systemic experience event do we have four similar systemic events to define three similar intervals—ergo, to confirm the periodicity that could only be intuitively anticipated after the third similar event experience had marked a second similar between-events interval.
##### 526.23
It takes a minimum of four similar-system-experiencing event recurrences to produce three similar between-event intervals and differentially excite a recollected pattern cognition that confirms the periodicity—a periodicity that was only intuitively and speculatively anticipated at the time of the third similar-system experiencing. The confirmatory fourth event and its third similarly intervalled recurrence cognition in turn introduce the inherently minimum sixness of convergent interrelationships of any four subdifferentiable points of tunably identifiable system experiences-which four, together, always define the four corners of a larger system. (Compare Secs. [[265.08-13]] [[265.08-13]], [[501.24]], [[987.073]], and [[1033.601]]. )
##### 526.24
Our eyesight is stroboscopic at 60 cycles per second. Because of the lags in apprehension we are not aware of the "between-takes" intervals. We do not sensingly realize that the nothingness is concentrically permeating the concentrically waved recurrent somethingnesses.
##### 526.25
The phenomenon death is as yet ultratunable system experience. We have no way of knowing whether any single, dual, or triple recurring experience events are to be followed by a fourth, as-yet-unexperienced, similar event which, if and when it occurs, may constitute a system-tuning-in, live realization of the omnioccurring, infratunable, tunable, and ultratunable systems' concentric intervalling. Death is intervalling. Life and death are always and only co-occurrent, life being concentrically successive tuning-ins and death being the as yet nontuned-in. (See Secs. [[262.10]] and [[531.10]].)
##### 526.26
*Out* is any-directional. You go in to go out because *out* is not only any direction but is all directions—electromagnetically speaking it is "tuned-out." (See [[Sec. 905.21]].) *In* is what we are thinking about now. *In* is the momentary reality into which we are *tuned*. All the rest is for the moment *tuned-out* but equally real as the information or experience is progressively *tuned-in*.
##### 526.27
Physics finds that Universe has no solid things surrounded by, and interspersed with, space. Life is an inventory of tuning-ins and tuning-outs of experience. Birth is the first tuning in; death may not be the last.
# 526.30 Systematic Communication of Space
##### 526.31
Space is the invisible complementation of the cognitive system. Like the rubber glove, cognition is left hand; space is inside-out right hand, and vice versa.
##### 526.32
Space is the unconsidered complement of the conceptually considered episode and its only neighboringly overlapped episodes of Scenario Universe. Space is the untuned-in complement of considerability and conceptuality.
tuned & untuned
in & out
##### 526.33
Special case is always tune-in-able. Special case is imaginable by brain. Conceptuality is a function of mind. Conceptuality is a priori independent of special case frequency tunability. Conceptuality is generalized, and the space complementation of generalized conceptuality is generalized. Space is generalization. Death is the omnidirectional otherness of as-yet physically realized Scenario Universe. Death is the as- yet unborn set of all the unconsidered special cases of all the as-yet undiscovered—ergo, as-yet-unconsidered—generalized principles.
##### 526.34
Conceptuality and its complementary space generalizations do not account or embrace the a priori mystery, the integrity of eternally regenerative Scenario Universe. All the inherent, concentric, systemic conceptuality, its internal spatial intervals, and its external spatial embracement are altogether both subordinate and supraordinate to the nonconsiderability of such a priori mystery as . . . How come Universe?
##### 526.35
Systems divide all of Universe. Thought divides all of Universe. Thought is inherently systemic—whose inherency always has its oherency of space. Only systems can communicate space. Space is systems-defined-and-deferred awareness of potentially tunable otherness.