---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2: false
e-issues:
p-structure: false
---

##### 528.01
Conceptuality operates independent of size. Whether referring to the size of an object in respect to other objects or the sizes of any one object's subdivisions, size emerges exclusively as a cyclic-frequency concept, uniquely differentiating out each special-case experience.
##### 528.02
Size is a measure of three kinds of energetic experience: a measure of relative magnitude of separate linear, areal, and volumetric rates of change, and each one has a differently rated change velocity. Size and size alone can come to zero.
##### 528.03
Size and time are synonymous. Frequency and size are the same phenomenon.
##### 528.04
Size is the concept of one experience's relationship to another experience defined in terms of cyclic repetition of any one experimentally demonstrable, self- terminating, or single-cycle experience. A triangle or a tetrahedron or a sphere is a triangle or a tetrahedron or a sphere conceptually independent of size. An angle is an angle independent of the length of its edges. All of Plato's solids may have the same length edges because their differences are entirely angular. An angle is inherently a subdivision of a single cycle. Therefore, an angle is subsize.
##### 528.05
Size begins with one specific cycle's completion. As the linear size of an object is doubled, surface is fourfolded and volume is eightfolded; ergo, areas increase at a velocity of the second power, and volumes increase at a velocity of the third power. Ergo, size-variation relationships are deceptive and not superficially predictable by any one experience.
##### 528.06
Size and intensity are relative sensorial comparing functions of the special- case experience by brain, not by mind. Mind is concerned only with principles that hold true independent of size yet govern all relative size relationships.

