---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2:
e-issues:
---

# 532.01 Definition
##### 532.02
It has been customarily said by the public journals, assumedly bespeaking public opinion, that "the scientists wrest order out of chaos." But the scientists who have made the great discoveries have been trying their best to tell the public that, as scientists, they have never found chaos to be anything other than the superficial confusion of innately a priori human ignorance at birth—an ignorance that is often burdened by the biases of others to remain gropingly unenlightened throughout its life. What the scientists have always found by physical experiment was an a priori orderliness of nature, or Universe always operating at an elegance level that made the discovering scientists' own working hypotheses seem crude by comparison. The discovered reality made the scientists' exploratory work seem relatively disorderly.
# 532.10 Oscillation of Symmetry and Asymmetry
##### 532.11
We may say that nature proceeds from the obviously orderly and symmetrical to the nonobviously (but always) orderly transformation phases known as asymmetries, which, having gone through their maximum or peak positive-phase asymmetry, only *seem* (to the uninformed brain) to be disorderly; they always return transformatively thereafter through an orderly progression of decreasing asymmetry to a fleeting passing through the condition of *obvious* symmetry or equilibrium popularly recognized as "order," thereafter deviating asymmetrically to the negative phase of balancing limits of oscillation.
###### 532.12
This transformative progression in dynamically and oscillatively produced orderliness is dealt with incisively by he calculus and is the fundamental pulsating principle governing omnidirectional electromagnetic-wave propagation.
##### 532.13
There is no true "noise" or "static." There are only as yet undifferentiated and uncomprehended frequency and magnitude orders. Chaos and ignorance are both conditions of the brain's only-sense-harvested and stored information as yet unenlightenedly reviewed and comprehendingly processed by the order-seeking and - finding mind.
##### 532.14
Asymmetry is the reason that Heisenberg's measurement is always indeterminate. Asymmetry is physical. Symmetry is metaphysical.
##### 532.15
All most-economic-pattern systems, asymmetric as well as symmetric, are resolvable into symmetric components in synergetic accounting.
##### 532.16
Our seeability is so inherently local that we rarely see anything but the asymmetries. Sociologists have trouble because they are o'erwhelmed by the high frequency of asymmetries (rather than the only synergetically discoverable principles).
##### 532.17
**Oscillation of Symmetry and Asymmetry**: Symmetry is only generalized. In cosmic-event averaging symmetry is ever implicit in the preponderantly-almost- symmetrical, spontaneous symmetry-referenceability of all asymmetry. Symmetry is systemic. Symmetry has nothing to do with the scenario series; it has nothing to do with local, special case realizations. You can find balances in series—positive and negative energies—but absolute symmetry is characteristic only of generalized systems. (See Secs. [[223.05]] and [[260.33]].)
##### 532.18
Crystallography is always special-case and is always confronted with near- symmetric asymmetry; ergo, crystallography must recognize and reference its special case aspects to generalized symmetry. Generalized symmetric conceptuality is only manifest as the vector equilibrium and its involvement domain. The regular—regular means absolutely uniangular—tetrahedron is absolute and generalized, thus never physically realized. All physical reality is special case. This is why Universe has a capital U.
# 532.20 Dynamic Symmetry
##### 532.21
Within every equilateral triangle, we can inscribe a three-bladed propeller, its tips protruded into the three corners. The propeller blades are approximately pear-shaped, and each of the blades is the same shape as the others. The pear-shaped propeller blade is locally asymmetrical. We call this revolvable omnibalanced asymmetry *dynamic symmetry*.
##### 532.22
We then have three pear-shaped blades at 120 symmetrical degrees from one another. They act as three perpendicular bisectors of an equilateral triangle, crossing each other at the triangle's center of area and dividing the total triangle into six right triangles, of which three are positive and three are negative. So there are six fundamentals of the triangle that make possible dynamic symmetry. (One part may look like a scalene, but it doesn't matter because it is always in balance.) Each corner is balanced by its positive and negative—like four streetcorners. This is called dynamic balance. Literally, all machinery is dynamically balanced in this manner.
##### 532.23
Let me take one propeller blade by itself. I am going to split it longitudinally and get an S curve, one in which the rates are changing and no power of the curve is the same. So it is asymmetrical by itself: it is repeated six times: positive, negative, positive, negative . . . and the six blades come round in dynamic symmetry. The energy forces involved are in beautiful absolute balance. We have energetic balance.
# 532.30 Symmetrical and Omnisymmetrical
##### 532.31
The difference between symmetrical and omnisymmetrical is that in symmetrical we have no local asymmetries as we do in any one of the propeller blades taken by themselves. *Symmetrical* means having no local asymmetries, whereas in contradistinction, *omnisymmetrical* and *dynamic symmetry* both permit local or momentary asymmetries, or both.
##### 532.32
Universe is omnisymmetrical as well as dynamically symmetrical in its evolutionarily transformative regeneration of scenario Universe.
# 532.40 Three Basic Omnisymmetrical Systems
##### 532.41
There are only three possible cases of fundamental omnisymmetrical, omnitriangulated, least-effort structural systems in nature: the tetrahedron, with three triangles at each vertex; the octahedron, with four triangles at each vertex; and the icosahedron, with five triangles at each vertex. (See [[illus. 610.20]] and Secs. [[724]], [[1010.20]], [[1011.30]] and [[1031.13]].)