---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2:
e-issues:
---

##### 533.01
The effects of all components of Universe in motion upon any other component in motion is precession, and inasmuch as all the component patterns of Universe seem to be motion patterns, in whatever degree they affect one another, they are interaffecting one another precessionally, and they are bringing about angular resultants other than the 180 degreenesses. Precess means that two or more bodies move in an interrelationship pattern of other than 180 degrees.
##### 533.02
Precession is the effect of any moving system upon any other moving system; the closer the proximity, the more powerful the effect. Mass attraction is inherent in precession. Mass attraction is to precession as a single note is to music. We do not pay much attention to precession because we think only of our own integral motions instead of those of Universe, though we are precessing Universe every time we take a step.
##### 533.03
All the intergravitation effects are precessional angular modulations. Precessional effects are always angular and always something other than 180 degrees; they are very likely to be 90 degrees or 60 degrees.
##### 533.04
Precession is regenerative, and that is why you have the wave. When the stone drops in the water, it impinges on the molecules and their atoms; everything is set in motion, and immediately there is a resultant at 90 degrees. The resultant is the wave; the 90 degreeness begets another 90 degreeness, this 90 degreeness begets another 90 degreeness, and so on until you have a series of 90 degreeness interrelationships, i.e., an omnilocally-orbiting system, as with all the electrons of all the atoms, and all the stars of the galaxies.
##### 533.05
The elliptic orbiting of the Sun's planets as well as the Solar System's motion relative to the other star groups of the galactic nebulae are all and only accounted for by precession.
##### 533.06
Precession is describable vectorially in terms of physically realized design expressed differentially as relative modification of angle, velocity, and mass in respect to an axis. (See [[Sec. 130, Precession and Entropy]].)
##### 533.07
**Intereffects**: All bodies of Universe interaffect all other bodies in varying degrees; and all the intergravitational effects are precessionally angular modulation, and all the interradiation effects are frequency modulations.
##### 533.08
Precession is the intereffect of individually operating cosmic systems upon one another. Since Universe is an aggregate of individually operative systems, all of the intersystem effects of Universe are precessional, and the 180-degree imposed forces usually result in redirectional resultants of 90 degrees. Gravity's 180-degree circumferential, omniembracement effect results in a 90-degree inwardly effected pressure that gains rapidly in intensity as the initially sixfold leverage advantage of the circumferentially tensed embracement gains exponentially in locally induced pressure as the radial distance outwardly from the sphere's center is decreased.
##### 533.09
The Sun's direct 180-degreeness interattraction pull upon Earth begets precessionally the latter's 90-degreeness orbiting around the Sun. And Earth's circumferential orbiting direction begets Earth's own 90-degreeness of axial rotation.
##### 533.10
Precessional 180-degree efforts beget 90-degree effects such as the Sun's radiation impoundment on Earth by the photosynthesis of agriculture (around the land) and photosynthesis of algae (around the waters of Earth), which regeneration occurs as precessionally impounded life-sustaining foods. The 180-degree Sun radiation effect precesses Earth's atmosphere in 90-degree circumferential direction as wind power, which wind power in turn precesses the windmills into 90-degree rotating.
##### 533.11
All the metaphysical generalizations of physical principles produce indirect physical acceleration effects that are precessional.
##### 533.12
Leverage, Sun power, wind power, tidal power, paddles, oars, windlasses, fire, metallurgy, cooking, slings, gears, electromagnetic generators, and metabolics are all 180-degree efforts that result in 90-degree precessional intereffects.
# 533.20 Precession and Degrees of Freedom
##### 533.21
Despite the angularly modified resultant complexities of omnidirectionally operative precessional forces upon ever-varyingly interpositioned cosmic bodies, Universe may be manifesting to us that there is always and only operative an omniintegrated cosmic coordination of cosmic independents' actions and reactions, wherein with radial broadcasting of energy there is an exponentially increasing diffusion as well as disturbance-diminishing resultant energy effectiveness, producing widely varying angular aberrations of the precession, wherein nonetheless there is always an initial individual-to- individual operative attractiveness whereby
<center> 180-degreeness begets 90-degreeness<br>

and<br>

90-degreeness begets 180-degreeness </center>
all of whose angularly aberrated complexity of resultant directional effects always pulsate in respect to a neutral or static 60-degreeness, which (only statically) imposes an everywhere-else 60-degreeness of resultants, which in turn induces the coexistence of the isotropic vector matrix.
##### 533.22
The 56 axes of cosmic symmetry (see [[Sec. 1042.05]]) interprecess successively to regenerate the centripetal-centrifugal inwardness, outwardness, and aroundnesses of other inwardnesses, outwardnesses, and aroundnesses as the omnipulsative cycling and omniinterresonated eternally regenerative Universe, always accommodated by the six positive and six negative alternately and maximally equieconomical degrees of freedom characterizing each and every event cycle of each and every unique frequency-quantum magnitude of the electromagnetic spectrum range.