---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-links-2:
m-issues:
---

##### 535.01
The phenomenon "infinity" of the calculus is inherently finite (see [[Sec. 224.11]]). Universe is nonsimultaneous but finite, because all experiences *begin* and *end,* and being terminal, are finite; ergo, Universe as the sum of finites is finite.
##### 535.02
Nonsimultaneous Universe is finite but conceptually undefinable; local systems are definable. We discover that Universe is finite and a local system is *definite*; every definite local system has inherent, always and only co-occurring twoness of polar axis spinnability and twoness of concave-convex complementary disparity of energy interaction behavior,⁴ plus two invisible tetrahedra (or two unities), altogether adding together as equal finitely fourfold symmetry Universe. The difference between Universe and any local system is always two invisible tetrahedra. Every local system may be subdivided into whole tetrahedra.
(Footnote 4: Concave concentrates radiation; convex diffuses radiation.)
##### 535.03
Finite minus de-finite means four tetrahedra minus two tetrahedra. Finite Universe equals eight cyclic unities. Every tetrahedron equals two, having inside- outingness oscillatory transformability unavailable to any structural system other than the tetrahedron.
##### 535.04
Halo conceptioning discloses the minute yet finitely discrete inaccuracy of the fundamental assumption upon which calculus was built; to wit, that for an infinitesimal moment a line is congruent with the circle to which it is tangent and that a plane is congruent with the sphere to which it is tangent. Calculus had assumed 360 degrees around *every* point on a sphere. The sum of a sphere's angles was said to be infinite. The halo concept and its angularly generated topology proves that there are always 720 degrees, or two times unity of 360 degrees, *less* than the calculus' assumption of 360 degrees times every point in every "spherical" system. This 720 degrees equals the sum of the angles of a tetrahedron. We can state that the number of vertexes of any system (including a "sphere," which must, geodesically, in universal-energy conservation, be a polyhedron of n vertexes) minus two times 360 degrees equals the sum of the angles around all the vertexes of the system. Two times 360 degrees, which was the amount subtracted, equals 720 degrees, which is the angular description of the tetrahedron. We have to take angular "tucks" in the nonconceptual finity (the calculus infinity). The "tucks" add up to 720 degrees, i.e., one tetrahedron. The difference between conceptual de-finity and nonconceptual finity is one nonconceptual, finite tetrahedron.
##### 535.05
In the general theory of variables, it has been recognized that the set of all the variables may be divided into two classes: (1) the class of all the inclusive variables within a given system, the *interior relevants,* and (2) the class of all those operative exclusive of the system, the *exterior relevants.* It has been further recognized that the variables outside the system may affect the system from outside. In varying degrees, specific levels of subclasses of these "background" or outside variables are identified as *parameters.* But the "background" concept is fallaciously inadequate; dealing with insideness and outsideness for "background" is limited to the two-dimensional or flat- projection concept, which inherently lacks insideness—ergo, cannot also have outsideness, which always and only coexists with insideness. Ergo, all two-dimensional copings with systems are inherently inadequate and prophetically vitiated.
##### 535.06
Our omnioriented halo concept converts the *parameter* consideration to symmetrically conceptual four-dimensionality and discloses a set of parameters *inside* as well as *outside* the zone of lucidly considered system stars. And the parameters are, at minimum, fourfold:
	1. the concave twilight zone of inward relevancy;
	2. the convex twilight zone of outward relevancy;
	3. the *stark,* nonconceptual irrelevancy inward; and
	4. the stark, nonconceptual irrelevancy outward.

Parameter 1 is a visible tetrahedron. Parameter 2 is a visible tetrahedron. Parameter 3 is an invisible tetrahedron. Parameter 4 is an invisible tetrahedron.
##### 535.07
The *considered* relevancy within the zone of lucidity consists of one tetrahedron or more. For each "considered tetrahedron," there are three complementary always and only co-occurring parametric tetrahedra. We discover that our omnihalo epistemological accounting consists entirely of rational tetrahedral quantation.
##### 535.08
By the omnidirection, star-studded halo reasoning, the development of a conceptual tetrahedron automatically changes a negative yet invisible tetrahedron into the nonsimultaneous, *nonconceptual, finite* Universe, comprehensive to the local de-finite conceptual system.
##### 535.09
The halo concept is that of an omnidirectional, complex, highfrequency, Doppler-effected, hypothetical zone experience in an omnidirectional, universal maelstrom of nonsimultaneous near and far explosions and their interaccelerating and refractive wave-frequency patternings and complex, precessionally-induced, local orbitings. The omni-interactions impinge on your nervous system in all manner of frequencies, some so "high" as to appear as "solid" things, some so slow as seeming to be "absolute voids."
# 535.10 Spherical Structures
##### 535.11
Because spherical sensations are produced by polyhedral arrays of interferences identified as points approximately equidistant from a point at the approximate center, and because the mass-attractive or -repulsive relationships of all points with all others are most economically shown by chords and not arcs, the spherical array of points is all interconnected triangularly by the family of generalized principles being operative as Universe, which produces very-high-frequency, omnitriangulated geodesic structures, which are an aggregate of chords triangularly interconnecting all the nearestly-surrounding points whose vertexly-converging angles always add up to less than 360°.
# 535.20 Building
##### 535.21
A building can be thought of as a clock, i.e., as a feedback circuitry wherein local pushings and pullings are structurally regenerative and ever-self-restabilizing. The spirally overlapping critical path of progressive accomplishments that led to humans reaching the Moon and returning safely to Earth involved not a linear months-and-years progression but an around-the-Sun-by-Earth orbiting and an around-the-Earth-by-Moon orbiting progression of accomplished events wherein humans progressively established one feedback circuitry system overlapping another, and another, more than a million times, as the year of Earth-Moon orbiting of 365 axially-rotated-in-orbit days drew to orbital close at a galactic merry-go-round repositioning in the cosmic theater that finds the planet Earth and its 92-million-miles-away Sun six billion miles away from where their Earth-Sun year began. And all of these celestially complex "goings-on" had to be competently comprehended and attended in order for humans to ferry both outward and returning between the complexedly moving Earth and the ever-more-complexedly orbiting, spinning, and galaxying Sun-Earth-Moon team.
##### 535.22
Thus with each year the spiraled critical-path "rope" of omniinterrelated, locally overlapping, circuitry-feedback closures integrated synergetically to produce the finally realized Earth-Moon inter-round-tripping of humans as the whole show co-orbited the Sun. The entire complex operation resulted in an ever-expanding spontaneous involvement of Earthians in an ever-increasing range of local Universe affairs. (See [[Sec. 1130.20]].)
 
