---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2:
e-issues:
---


##### 538.01
Nature's probability is not linear or planar, but the mathematical models with which it is treated today are almost exclusively linear. Real Universe probability accommodates the omnidirectional, interaccommodative transformating transactions of universal events, which humanity identifies superficially as environment. Probability articulates locally in Universe in response to the organically integral, generalized, omnidirectional *in, out, inside out, outside in*, and *around* events of the self-system as well as with the selfsystem's extraorganic travel and externally imposed processing around and amongst the inwardly and outwardly contiguous forces of the considered system as imposed by both its synchronously and contiguously critically near macrocosmic and microcosmic neighbors.
##### 538.02
Real Universe's probability laws of spherically propagative whole systems' developments are intimately and finitely conditioned by the three-way great-circle spherical grids inherently embracing and defining the nonredundant structuring of all systems as formingly generated by critical proximity interferences of the system's components' behaviors and their dynamical self-triangulations into unique system- structuring symmetries whose configurations are characterized by the relative abundance patterning laws of topological crossing points, areas, and lines of any considered system as generally disclosed by the closed-system hierarchy of synergetics.
##### 538.03
Synergetics, by relating energy and topology to the tetrahedron, and to systems, as defined by its synergetic hierarchy, replaces randomness with a rational hierarchy of omni-intertransformative phase identifications and quantized rates of relative intertransformations.
# 538.10 Probability Model of Three Cars on a Highway
##### 538.11
I am tying up the social experience, often observed, in which three independently and consistently velocitied automobiles (and only three) come into close proximity on the highway—often with no other cars in sight. Mathematically speaking, three points—and only three—define both a plane and a triangle. The cars make a triangle; and because it is mathematically discovered that the total number of points, or areas, or lines of a system are always even numbers; and that this divisibility by two accommodates the polar-and-hemispherical positive-negativeness of all systems; and because the defining of one small triangle on the surface of a system always inadvertently defines a large triangle representing the remainder of the whole system's surface; and this large triangle's corners will always be more than 180 degrees each; ergo, the triangle is an "inside-out," i.e., negative, triangle; and to convert it to positive condition requires halving or otherwise fractionating each of its three corners by great circle lines running together somewhere within the great negative triangle; thus there develops a minimum of four positive triangles embracing the Earth induced by such three-car convergences.
##### 538.12
The triangle made by the three cars is a complementarity of the three other spherical triangles on the Earth's surface. The triangle formed by the two cars going one way, and one the other way, gets smaller and smaller and then reverses itself, getting ever larger. There is always a closer proximity between two of the three. This is all governed by topological "pattern integrity. "
##### 538.13
Probability is exclusively abstract mathematics: theoretically calculated points on curves. The statisticians think almost exclusively in lines or planes; they are what I call planilinear. Willard Gibbs in evolving his phase rule was engaged in probability relating to chemistry when he inadvenently and intuitively conceived of his phase rule for explaining the number of energetic freedoms necessary to introduce into a system, complexedly constituted of crystals, liquids, and gases, in order to unlock them into a common state of liquidity. His discovered phase rule and topology are the same: they are both synergetic. Despite the synergetic work of such pioneers as Euler and Gibbs, all the different chemistries and topologies still seem to be random. But synergetics, by relating energy and topology to the tetrahedron, and to systems as defined, and by its synergetic hierarchy, replaces randomness with a rational cosmic, shape-and-structural-system hierarchy. This hierarchy discloses a constant relative abundance of the constituents; i.e., for every nonpolar point there are always two faces and three edges. But systems occur only as defined by four points. Prime structural systems are inherently tetrahedral, as is also the quantum.
##### 538.14
A social experience of three cars: they make a triangle changing from scalene to equilateral to scalene. The triangles are where the cars don't hit. (These are simply the windows.) But you can't draw less than four triangles. The complementarity of the three triangles makes the spherical tetrahedron—which makes the three-way grid. The little spherical triangle window is visible to human observers in greatest magnitude of human observability and awareness of such three-car triangles at 15 miles distance, which is 15 minutes of spherical arc of our Earth. Such dynamically defined Earth triangulation is not a static grid, because the lines do not go through the same point at the same time; lines—which are always action trajectories—never do. All we have is patterning integrity of critical proximities. There is always a nonviolated intervening boundary condition. This is all that nature ever has.
##### 538.15
Nature modulates probability and the degrees of freedom, i.e., frequency and angle, leading to the tensegrity sphere; which leads to the pneumatic bag; all of which are the same kind of reality as the three automobiles. All the cosmic triangling of all the variety of angles always averages out to 60 degrees. That is the probability of all closed systems, of which the Universe is the amorphous largest case. Probability is not linear or planar, but it is always following the laws of sphericity or whole systems. Probability is always dependent upon critical proximity, omnidirectional, and only dynamically defined three-way gridding pattern integrity, and with the concomitant topologically constant relative abundance of points, areas, and lines, all governed in an orderly way by low-order, prime-number, behavioral uniqueness as disclosed by synergetics.