---
p-replication: true
p-emDash: true
p-headings: true
p-images: true
p-links: true
p-equations: true
p-italics: true
p-links-2: false
e-issues:
p-structure: false
---
# 539.00 Quantum Wave Phenomena

##### 539.01
We say that Universe is design and that design is governed exclusively by frequency and angular modulations, wherefore the "angle" and "frequency" must be discretely equatable with quantum mechanics which deals always synergetically with the totality of Universe's finite energy.
##### 539.02
The relative acutenesses and the relative obtusenesses of the angle and frequency modulating must relate discretely to the relative mass experienciabilities of Universe.
##### 539.03
Quantum wave phenomena's *omni-wholeness* of required a priori accountability and persistent consideration is always systematically conceivable as a sphere and may be geodesically fractionated into great-circle-plane subsets for circular plane geometry considerability. Quantum waves always complete their cycles (circles). The circle can be divided into any number of arc increments as with the teeth of a circular gear—many little teeth or a few big teeth. In quantum wave phenomena we may have a few big, or many small, differentiated events, but they always add up to the same whole.
##### 539.04
The rate of angular change in a big wave is very much slower than the rate of angular change in a small wave, even though they look superficially to be the same forms—as do two circles of different size appear to be the same form. The difference in the wave that is big and the wave that is small, is always in relation to the dimensioning of the observer's own integral system, and determines the discrete difference (i.e., the "relativity") of the wave angle.
##### 539.05
What is "the most economical relationship" or "leap" between the last occurred event and the next occurring event? It is the chord (identifiable only by central angle) and the rate of the central-angle reorientation-aiming most economically toward that event, which is the angular (momentum) energy change involved in the angular and frequency modulation of all design of all pattern integrity of Universe.
##### 539.06
Let us say that you are progressively leaping—"pacing" —around the perimeter of two circles: one small, six feet in diameter; the other large, 600 feet in diameter, leaping clockwise as seen from above. You are six feet long—"tall." On the small circle you will be turning, or angularly reorienting your direction to the right, much more obtusely in relation to your last previous direction of leap-accomplished facing and pacing.
##### 539.07
Your rate of angular change in direction will be apprehendable in relation to the angles and overall direction of "you," as the observer, and as the criteria of the "rate of angle modulation."
##### 539.0
8  Newton's first law: A body persists in a straight line except as affected by other bodies. But the 1974 era of physics' discoveries of "prime otherness" must add to Newton that: All bodies are always being affected by other bodies, and the intereffects are always precessional. The intereffects are angular-momentum aberrating. The angular momentum alterations are all determined by the angle and frequency modulating.
##### 539.09
We may think of our leaps as describing the circular chords between the successive circular circumference points leaped-to. With our relative leap-size taken as that of our height—six feet—the chord of "our self" — either leaping around or lying down—in a small circle will represent the chord of the arc of a much larger central angle than it would constitute in respect to a large circle. The relative *angular difference* is that of the respective central angle changes as subtended by each use of self (the observer) as the chord of a circle of given size. This ground-contact-discontinuing chordal "leap" of self relates to quantum mechanics employment in experimental physics wherein no absolute continuum is manifest.
##### 539.10
If a six-foot man lies down in a six-foot circle he becomes the diameter and the central angle is 180 degrees. If a six-foot man lies down in a 600-foot-diameter circle, he will be a chord subtending a central angle of approximately one degree—a chord whose arc altitude is so negligible that the observing self's height of six-feet will be a chord so relatively short as to lie approximately congruent with the one-degree arc of the circle. When the relative circle size in respect to the observer is of macro-differential magnitudes, such as that of the circumference of the galactic system in respect to each planet observer, then the central-angle magnitude of the subtended macrocosmic arc becomes undetectable, and the astronomer and navigator assume parallelism—parallax—to have set in, which produces a constant factor of error which must be incorporated in mathematical formulation of system descriptions. In quantum accounting and analysis of energy events and transformative transactions, this parallelism separates one quantum tetrahedron from its three surrounding tetrahedra.

