---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
structure: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---


##### 1060.01
The great compressibility of gases is occasioned by the fact that all the tetrahedra are interlinked to one another only by single corners. This is a single bond: it requires the minimum mass-attraction energy of joining. You can fill a very great deal of space with single-bonded tetrahedra; and they are not only highly compressible or infoldable but, being universal-jointed, are most flexible, as are all gases.
##### 1060.02
We will now examine two-bonded associations of tetrahedra. Double- bonding means two mass-attractions. Double-bonds are twice as powerfully cohered and take twice as much energy to disturb their interpatterning. Double-bonding makes a hinge between the tetrahedra. They are, therefore, flexibly interlinked. Forces being applied telegraph throughout the whole system. Both gases and liquids have this property of distributing forces. But whereas single-bonded gases are highly compactible or compressible, double-bonded liquids are noncompressible. If you assemble tetrahedra edge to edge, you cannot compress them any more even though they are flexibly hinged. The coherence of the liquid's viscosity is inherently twice that of the gases.
##### 1060.03
We get even closer inter-mass positioning when there are three-corner bonds (i.e., triangular faces congruent with faces). This produces crystalline rigidity. Crystalline or triple-bonded structuring does not distribute loads as do gases and liquids. Nature designed the triple-bonding to produce the high cohesiveness in tension of crystalline structures. Due to its triple-bonding, the most difficult structure to pull apart is the crystalline.
# 1061.10  Tree Structure
##### 1061.11
In the structuring of a tree or plant, the crystalline tensions of liquid cell sacs are hydraulically filled in order to distribute the compression and tension loads throughout the whole structure. The hydraulically filled cells of the tree are noncompressible. Thus is the tree capable of holding a five-ton branch out horizontally, due first to the noncompressibility of the liquid content of the cell sacs, and second to the tension being provided at greatest effectiveness by the triple-bond crystalline sac skins. Gases are inserted between the molecules of liquid of the tree's cell sacs. The gases' compressibility provides the compressibility or flexibility of the tree's branches to wave in the wind. If you have ever tried to hold a 25-pound suitcase out horizontally at arm's length, you can appreciate how great a structural task is being performed when a tree's five-ton branches wave yieldingly in the storm without breaking off. You can understand that in an ice storm, the hydraulic content of the tree's cells freezes and can no longer distribute the stresses, and as a consequence during such conditions, many tree branches break off and fall to the ground.
##### 1061.12
We use these combined single-, double-, and triple-bond principles in making the transport airplane's landing gear operate. The pneumatics are in the airplane's rubber tires, and the hydraulics operate as nonfreezing liquids forced through long passageways of the airplane's undercarriage.
# 1061.20  Conic Geometry of Trees
##### 1061.21
Nature operates only convergently and divergently, never in parallel. She uses equispaced, concentric convergence and divergence. Trees grow annually by successively and concentrically producing enveloping, live, cambium-layer cones divergent from the green nuclear apex budding and of greater diameter at the tree's wide and deeply rooted base.
##### 1061.22
Nature's approximately equispaced, concentrically conical, spherical and polyhedral convergences and divergences are all asymmetrically aberrated in respect to their symmetrical geometries of reference—in respect to which they are progressively conformed while being forever in time closely or remotely affected by the ever-changing proximities of all other systems of ever-transforming Scenario Universe.
##### 1061.23
As with the misassumptions of "straight" lines, "flat" planes, and "absolute" solids, the misassumption of an all-embracing, rectilinearly associative and disassociative cosmic system of parallelisms has been occasioned by too-close, too-short-term, and too- limited consideration and accounting of humanity's observational experiences. Splitting a tree discloses an apparently rough parallelism of grain running vertically between the concentric cones, but it proves to be not parallel, as the concentric spacing gradually converges toward the conic apexes and diverges toward the conic tree base.
##### 1061.24
Nature's omnidirectional growths and contractions are accomplished only convergently and divergently, even when directionally focused by combined reflective interference and refractive shunting through lenses. Even focused radiant energy does not operate in parallels but in pulsively alternating, convergent-divergent contractions and expansions of either the wirelessly beamed or wired-beam transmissions, both of which occur in concentric cones. Cones are simply rotated tetrahedra linked together first base- to-base and then apex-to-apex, repeat and repeat, with the number of concentric circles of any cross section of either the most closely or most openly spaced concentricity constituting the cyclic frequency of the special case transmitting.
##### 1061.25
Radiation is omnidirectional entropic divergence from a nucleus; gravity is omnidirectional syntropic convergence toward all nuclei. Cross sections of gravitational convergence and radiational divergence appear as the successive concentric cambium layerings of the cross section of a tree trunk.