---
m-replication: true
m-images: true
m-headings: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-emDash: true
m-italics: true
m-links-2:
m-issues:
---
# 650.01 Rationale
##### 650.011
Conventional engineering analysis long ago discovered that a two-way, vertically sectioned beam crossing at 90 degrees, supported from four walls, provided no more strength at the mid-crossing point than could be found in the stronger of the two beams, for they were redundantly acting as hinges, and only one axis of hinging could be articulated at one time.
##### 650.02
In three-way beam crossings, each vertically sectioned beam has a two-way tendency to rock or torque or hinge over from its most favorable aspect of maximum dimension in opposition to gravity into its least favorable aspect, that of least dimension in opposition to gravity. As each beam could hinge from the vertical in two ways, each may be split theoretically into two vertical parts and thus hinge both ways. The three-way beam crossing is thus countered by the simultaneous and symmetrical both-ways split rocking of all three vertical split-beam hinges—as three sets of parallel planes until their edges meet in ridge poles to provide a matrix of tetrahedra, with common lean-to stability and with maximum energy-repose economy, synergetically between a fourth—or horizontal—set of planes.
##### 650.03
While the three beams' sets of uniquely split plus-and-minus vertical planes rotate into three positive-and-negative parallel sets of planes at 35° 16' off vertical, each of the tilted beam's tops and bottoms is in two parallel and horizontal planes, respectively. This makes a total of four unique and symmetrically oriented planes within the system. Where the four unique sets of planes intercept each other, there is established a system of interconnected lines; as the interconnected lines contain all the stress patternings, struts may be substituted for them and the planar webs may then be eliminated. When struts alone are used for horizontal decking, they are designed to receive loads at their vertexial ends and to send their loads through their neutral axis, whereas beams inefficiently take loads anywhere at 90 degrees to their neutral axes.
##### 650.04
In the octet truss, three planes of beams and their triangularly binding edge patterns rotate tepee-wise³ positively and negatively to nonredundant ridge-pole fixity, and with such symmetry as to result in radial distribution of all loads from any one loaded vertex through the neutral axes of all the edges of the system. Loads are precessionally differentiated as either pure-compression or pure-tension stresses. They are metered at even rates because their edge vectors are identical in length. The loads precess further into positive and negative radial and circumferential waves eccentric to the loaded vertex, with the stress distributed positively and negatively throughout those adjacent vertexes surrounding any one loading center, and with the wave distribution in all directions precessing into tensile action the concentric series of rings around the originally loaded vertex. The increasing succession of concentric rings that continually redistribute the received loads act in themselves as unitary systems, with an increasing number of eccentrically distributive vectors as full-dispersion loads come to symmetric reconcentration at supporting areas in direct pattern reversal. (See Secs. [[420]] and [[825.28]].)

(Footnote 3: See [[Sec. 621.20]].)
# 650.10 Inherent Nonredundance
##### 650.101
The octet truss is synergetic because the four planes comprise a system, and what were previously individual beams, and therefore free systems in themselves, are now fixed components in a larger tetrahedral system, which is inherently nonredundant because it is the minimum fixed system. Ergo, all those previous individual, free-system beams are now converted into one nonredundant complex of basic systems, and all the previous beams' component biological and subchemical structures are systematically refocused in such a manner that all subcomponents are nonredundantly interactive in the second-power rates of effectiveness accruing to the circumferential finiteness of systems in respect to their radial modules.
##### 650.11
The unitary, systematic, nonredundant, octet-truss complex provides a total floor system with higher structural performance abilities than engineers could possibly ascribe to it through conventional structural analysis predicated only upon the behavior of its several parts. It is axiomatic to conventional engineering that if parts are "horizontal," they are beams; and the total floor ability by such conventional engineering could be no stronger than the single strongest beam in the plural group. Thus their prediction falls short of the true behavior of the octet truss by many magnitudes, for in true mathematical fact, no "beams" are left in the complex; that is, there are no members in it loaded at other than polar terminals. Down to the minutest atomic components, the octet truss is therefore proved to be synergetic, and its discovery as a structure—in contradistinction to its aesthetic or superficial appearance—is synergetic in performance; that is, its behavior as a whole is unpredicted by its parts. This makes its discovery as a structure a true surprise, and therefore it is a true invention.
##### 650.12
What is the surprise? It is because we had used three planes of the beams oriented to most favorable ability aspect in respect to gravity, and in so doing we had inadvertently gained a fourth interacting favorable-aspect plane of symmetry not consciously introduced as a previously acquired component of the whole, which thereby made the beams "vanish" into abstract limbo. The fourth plane is strictly the fourth plane of the tetrahedron inadvertently accruing, as does the hinging on of one triangle to two previously hinged equilateral triangles provide inadvertently a fourth triangle: 1 + 2 = 4. Q.E. D.
##### 650.13
A second derivative surprise is the nonredundance of the larger associated complex of tetrahedra, occasioned by its precessionally induced self-differentiation of functions: when loaded at any one vertex in such a manner that every member acts in axially focused pure tension or pure compression, and with the subsequent loading of any next adjacent vertex, there is inherently induced comprehensive reversal of all the system's pure tension into pure compression functions, and vice versa. That is to say, it is dynamically nonredundant.