---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues: 504.11 was an inline heading in rwgrayprojects.com
m-range:
---
# 504.00  Special Case

##### 504.01
Experience is always special case.
##### 504.011
**Events**: Energy events and structures are always special case (see [[Sec. 1075]]).
##### 504.02
The human brain apprehends and stores each sense-reported bit of information regarding each special-case experience. Only special-case experiences are recallable from the memory bank.
##### 504.03
There is in Universe a vast order. It never forsakes. I throw a coin in the air, and it returns and hits the floor *every time*. Nature is never at a loss about what to do about anything. Nature never vacillates in her decisions. The rolling oceans cover three- quarters of Earth. Along the beaches, the surf is continually pounding on the shore. No two successive local surf poundings have ever been the same nor will they ever be the same. They typify the infinitude of individualism of every special-case event in the Universe.
##### 504.04
Weightless, abstract human mind reviews and from time to time discovers mathematically reliable and abstractly statable interrelationships existing between and amongst, but not "in" or "of," any of the special-case experience components of the relationship. When a long-term record of testing proves the relationship to persist without exception, it is rated as a scientifically generalized principle. Whenever human mind discovers a generalized principle to exist amongst the special-case experience sets, the *discovery event* itself becomes a *new* special-case experience to be stored in the brain bank and recalled when appropriate. Amongst a plurality of brain-stored, *newly understood experiences*, mind has, from time to time, discovered greater and more significant understandings, which in their turn as discoveries, which are "experiences," constitute further *very* special-case experiences to be stored in the recallable and reconsiderable brain bank's wealth of special-case experiences.
# 504.10 Truth as Special Case Realizations
##### 504.11
We may say that thinking about the truth alters truth, but only to the extent of defining it. We may always clarify and redefine the truth by making it more comprehensively considerate and more incisively exquisite. Truth alters truth only by refining the definition. The substance of the sensing and instrumental control of the physical means of communication is always refinable and tends toward the ephemeralization of doing ever more with ever less, but you can never get to the exact, most economical statement of the truth, for the very communication will have ephemeralized to pure metaphysics. Truths are like generalized principles: interaccommodative and nonintercontradictory. Truths are special case realizations of the generalized principles; by these very aspects are they discovered to be truths.
##### 504.12
The experience of life inevitably brings inspirational glimpsing of the cosmic orderly vectors, all of which point convergingly to the absolute. The synergetic integral of all truths—being absolute—is incomprehensible to temporality.
##### 504.13
Truth is special case. Truths tend to articulate generalized principles. All the cosmic generalized principles are omniembracing. Truth, like gravity, is nonlinear; it is omniembracing. Of all the creatures on our planet only humans have demonstrated the ability to discover progressive truths.
##### 504.14
As humans are physically situate halfway between the largest and smallest known bio-organisms, they are also halfway between the astro-largest and nuclear-smallest physical phenomena; humans thus find themselves between an absolute, omnidirectional, equilibrious, dimensionless, metaphysical core contained within a spheric twilight zone of macro-almost-true and themselves containing a spheric twilight zone of micro-almost-true. As humans are in the middle of the cosmic scheme metaphysically, truth itself is an unreachable, omnidirectional, cosmic center. The truth is zero eternal. Temporality=tempo-reality=time-reality. In temporality you cannot reach the truth. You cannot be exact because truth is zero. Absolute truth is an omnizerophase condition. The metaphysical comprehension passes through, expandingly and contractively, but fails ever to remain at the zero core of equilibrious truth.
##### 504.15
As we reduce the tolerance for error, we begin to get near the eternal, which is what we call the truth. But we will never quite get there. The inexhaustibly attractive and truthfully inspired thoughts of human minds ever approach an evolutionary refinement while constantly intertransforming as a precessional consequence of progressively experienced complexes of omniinteraccommodative, intercomplementary transactional events; the process results in ever-closer proximity to perfect equilibrium of all intertransformative forces, but it never attains such equilibrium.
##### 504.16
Truth may be dealt with only as relative relationships of interactions of dynamic principles. Degrees of accuracy are refinements that in no way affect the fundamental reliability of the directional or angular sense toward centralized truths. Truth is a relationship; it is a direction rather than an attainment. The search for truth is a yielding to the integrity of the intellect, revealing information and nuances that are ever more impressive, more delicate, and more exciting.
##### 504.17
Truth is the progressive diminution of residual error. The generalizations are eternal. The more accurately we state the truth, the less frequently it becomes necessary to modify our statement of it. We have to change what we say less and less. Eventually it works back to the eternality of No Change.

