---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---


##### 507.01
The rubber glove, with its red exterior and green interior, when stripped inside-outingly from off the left hand as red, now fits the right hand as green. First the left hand was conceptual and the right hand was nonconceptual—then the process of stripping off inside-outingly *created* the right hand. And then vice versa as the next strip-off occurs. Strip it off the right hand and there it is left again.
##### 507.02
That is the way our Universe is. There are the visibles and the invisibles of the inside-outing nonsimultaneity. What we call thinkable is always outside out. What we call space is just exactly as real, but it is inside out. There is no such thing as right and left.
##### 507.03
The always and only coexisting convex and concave demonstrates that unity is plural and at minimum two, in which only one is spontaneously accounted as obvious.
##### 507.04
The positive (right) spiral and negative (left) spiral make one tetrahedron: 1+1=4: therefore no parity. But there is parity in the internal complementary macrocosmic tetrahedron of the sum of the angles around all the convex vertexes of the system, and an internal complementary microcosmic tetrahedron of the sum of the angles around all the concave vertexes of the system.
##### 507.05
When physics finds experimentally that a unique energy patterning- erroneously referred to in archaic terms as a particle—is annihilated, that annihilation is only of the inside-outing rubber-glove kind. The positive becomes the negative and the positive only seems to have been annihilated. We begin to realize conceptually the finite, yet nonsensorial, outness continuum integrity that can be converted into sensorial inness by the inside-outing process, but only at the expense of losing afterimage of the previous sense-experienced conceptual fixation.
##### 507.06
The complementary of parity is disparity and not a reflective image.