---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---




##### 513.01
The angles of orientation and the dimensional fixes of vectorial energy-event manifestations are always conceptually oriented and positioned in respect to the optionally selected axis of conceptual observation.
##### 513.02
Fixes consist of both angular and dimensional observations.
##### 513.03
To be *experiential*, we must have an observer and the observed.
##### 513.04
To be *experimental*, we must have the *articulator*, the *articulated*, and the *observer*.
##### 513.05
The vectorial angulation of both the experientially observed and the experimentally articulated is always referential to the axis of conceptual observation of the observer or the articulator, respectively. These always and only coexisting functions of experience and experiments embrace the fundamental parameters of operational science.
##### 513.06
"My life" is the progressive harvestings of the information unpredictably accruing in the attempt to be both adequate and accurate. The harvest is stored in the brain bank. Life consists of alternate observing and articulating interspersed with variable- recall rates of "retrieved observations" and variable rates of their reconsideration to the degrees of "understandability."
##### 513.07
Resonantly propagated evolution oscillatingly induces tetrahedral quanta—both metaphysical and physical—formulated vectorially between four "star- event" phases
1. observation,
2. consideration,
3. understanding, and
4. articulation,
or
1. recall;
2. reconsideration;
3. understanding;
4. articulation.
##### 513.08
**Articulation**: The articulations are ever reenacted, each time hoping to reduce the tolerance magnitude of residual inaccuracy of either observation or articulation.