---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---

# 515.01  Definition
##### 515.011
Because there are no experimentally known "continuums," we cannot concede validity to the concept of continuous "surfaces" or of continuous "solids." The dimensional characteristics we used to refer to as "areas" and "volumes," which are always the *second-* and *third-* power values of linear increments, we can now identify experimentally, arithmetically, and geometrically only as quantum units that aggregate as points, both in system-embracing areal aggregates and within systems as volume-occupant aggregates. The areal and volumetric quanta of separately islanded "points" are always accountable numerically as the second and third powers of the *frequency of modular subdivision of the system's radial or circumferential vectors.*
##### 515.02
The frequency of any system is determined by the isotropic, omniintertriangulated, omnidirectionally considerate, vectorially moduled, subdivision enumeration of the system's radial and geodesically chorded circumferential closure's totally relevant involvement limits taken in respect to the system's independent, event- regenerating center. Because of the required omnitriangulation and isotropicity, systems are inherently moduled only by equiangular-equilateral triangles, and their generative center is that of the vector equilibrium wherefore the radial and circumferentially chorded time-size, i.e., frequency-wavelength modules subdivisions, by which alone system frequency may be determined, are always identical.
# 515.10 Angles
##### 515.101
Because angles are parts of only one cycle, they are inherently subcyclic. Because size must be predicated Einsteinianly upon local-experience time cycles, relative size is measured in cyclic units. Therefore, angles, which are less than one cycle, are inherently less than one unit of size. Angles are inherently "subsize" consideration. Because angles are subcyclic, they are "subsize." Therefore, we are permitted to think independently of size in respect to triangles, which consist of three separate angles.
##### 515.11
We may think independently of size in respect to tetrahedra, which consist of 12 separate angles. Triangles and tetrahedra and all varieties of polyhedra are thinkable independently of size. The cyclic-module measurement of the time of experiencing or generating the length of the edge of any triangulated special-case system can represent the basic "standard" of relative size-comparisoning to other object experiences. Each cyclic "sizing" increment is one unit of frequency and each cyclic increment inherently constitutes one unit of experienced physical energy.
##### 515.12
When man employs nature's basic designing tools, he needs only generalized angles and special-case frequencies to describe any and all omnidirectional patterning experience subjectively conceived or objectively realized.
##### 515.13
For how many cycles of relative-experience timing shall we go in each angular direction before we change the angle of direction of any unique system-describing operation?²
(Footnote 2: Now that we understand this much, we may understand how man, consisting of a vast yet always inherently orderly complex of wave angles and line frequencies, might be scanningly transmitted from any here to there by radio.)
##### 515.14
Angular fractionation is absolute. Triangles can be equiangular—one-fourth of a cycle or one-fiftieth of one cycle of unity—but they cannot be equilateral. Angles are constant and independent of size. Size is always special-case experience. Angles are generalized. Only eternal constants can be generalized. We do not know the length of the edges. Edges can be any length permitted by time. The length of the edges is frequency, while the angle is subfrequency.
# 515.15 Complementary Angles
##### 515.151
The initial angle and its cyclically complementary angle are defined by the relative proportions of one whole circle into which the whole circle is divided by any two different radii of the circle.
##### 515.152
The greater the even number of equal intervals into which the circumference of the circle is divided, the more accurately may the proportioning of the circle's central- angle-divisioning be described. If the circle is divided into 360 degrees and if the initial angle considered is 60 degrees, then its complementary angle is 300 degrees. If the initial angle is 90 degrees, its complementary is 270 degrees. If the initial angle is 180 degrees, its complementary is also 180 degrees. This ambiguity, if not thoughtfully considered, can bring about fatal "wrong-way" errors of direction-taking in navigational calculations. What looks like a local fragment of a "straight" line constitutes a complementary pair of 180-degree angles generated around the center-point of the line.
##### 515.153
An assumedly straight line both of whose ends are hypothetically considered to be leading in opposite directions to infinity also may have an arbitrarily selected dividing point located (locally conceptually) upon it from which the oppositely extending lines emanate-or upon which point the opposite lines converge to form a 180-degree angle. Both of the oppositely-and-outwardly-bound lines of extension from the 180-degree angular convergence point are inferentially interminable. Ergo, as hypothetically assumed to be "straight" lines, they are paradoxically half-finite and half-infinite. This is a paradox consequent to humanity's misassumption of the existence of the phenomenon of "straight" lines, an error that occurred in turn only as a consequence of the inadequate experience of people at the time they adopted the fallacious assumption. Such misconceptions are the logical consequence of humans having always been born naked, helpless, and ignorant, though superbly equipped cerebrally, utterly dependent upon only trial-and-error-based exploration and survival stratagems.
# 515.20 Energy
##### 515.21
The physical Universe is an aggregate of frequencies. Each chemical element is uniquely identifiable in the electromagnetic spectrum by its own unique set of separately unique frequencies. None of the chemical-element sets or individual frequencies is the same as those of any of the other chemical elements' frequencies. The different frequencies of one element's set produce unique cyclic-frequency interactions whose resonances are similar to musical chords. The electromagnetic spectrum of physical Universe embraces the full spectrum range of as yet discovered and identified radiation frequencies of all the first 92 self-regenerative, as well as the only split-second enduring elements beyond the 92 self-regeneratives thus far discovered by experimental physics. The macro/micro-cosmic electromagnetic spectrum chart discloses a cosmic orchestration that ranges from those of the microcosmic to the very complex macrocosmic-embracing whole celestial Universe nebulae. The human senses are able to tune in no more than one- millionth of the total known frequency range limits of the presently known electromagnetic spectrum. Whether expressed in foot-pounds per minute or kilowatt-hours, the total physical work done by all the muscles of all humans in all the two and one-half million years of known presence of humans aboard our planet Earth, amounts to less than the energy released in one second of time by one hurricane; one hurricane's released energy equals the total energy of the combined atomic bombs thus far produced and stockpiled by the Russians and the U.S.A. In contradistinction to this minuscule energy involvement of all history's human muscle, the invisible, weightless, but cosmically magnificent minds of humans have thus far discovered, quantized, and catalogued the relative abundance of each and all of the 92 regenerative chemical elements occurring on all the visible stars of known Universe. Thus emerges human awareness of the physical-energy-mastering potential of the metaphysical mind's extraordinary information-sorting and -analyzing capability.
##### 515.30
Frequency is plural unity. Frequency is a multicyclic fractionation of unity. A minimum of two cycles is essential to frequency fractionation. Frequency means a discrete plurality of cycles within a given greater cyclic increment.
##### 515.31
In closest packing of spheres, frequency is the number of spaces between the balls, not the number of balls. In closest packing, frequency is equal to radius.
##### 515.32
Electromagnetic frequencies of systems are sometimes complex but always constitute the prime rational integer characteristic of physical systems. (See Secs. [[223.41]] and [[400.50]].)
##### 515.33
Wave magnitude and frequency are experimentally interlocked as cofunctions, and both are experimentally gear-locked with energy quanta.
