---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---


##### 529.01
Time is experience. Time can be *expressed* only in relative magnitude ratios of relevant experiences. Time can be *defined* only in terms of the relative frequency of reoccurrence of relative angular changes of the observer's environment, the relative frequency-of-occurrence rate being referenced to any constantly recycling behavior of any chosen subsystem of Universe.³ All experiential realizations are conceptually definable in degrees of angulation change and in relative frequency-of-occurrence rates in respect to the observer's optionally chosen axis of conceptuality and to his specifically identified time-recycling rate.
(Footnote 3: E.g., a clock.)
##### 529.02
Distance is measured in time. Time increments are calculated in respect to a variety of cyclic regularities manifest in our environmental experiences. Experimentally demonstrable cyclic regularities, such as the frequencies of the reoccurrence of radiation emissions of various atomic isotopes, become the fundamental time-increment references of relative size measurement of elemental phenomena.
##### 529.03
Newton said that time was a very specific phenomenon, assuming that there was a specific and finite time that permeated Universe and that everything observable in Universe was occurring at the same time. It was Einstein who discerned that time might be relative to the individual observer. A majority of academic people and the vast majority of nonscientists are still thinking in terms of the classical Newtonian scientific conceptioning of "instant Universe." While light's speed of approximately 700 million miles per hour is very fast in relation to automobiles, it is very slow in relation to the "no time at all" of society's obsolete instant-Universe thinking. It was part of the classical scientist's concept of instant Universe that Universe is a system in which all parts affect one another *simultaneously* in varying degrees. Contemporary science as yet assumes that all local systems in physical Universe are instantly and simultaneously affecting one another in widely ranging degrees of influence. (And the degrees of influence are governed by relative proximity.) Whereas radiation, i.e., entropy, casts shadows and gravity, syntropy, does not; and whereas the tensional integrity of Universe and all its substructurings is continuous and omniembracing—while compression is islanded and discontinuous—it may also be that while light and radiation has a velocity, gravity is timeless and eternally instant. (See Secs. [[231.01]], [[251.05]], [[541]] and [[1052]].)
##### 529.04
All the time phenomena of the physicists are expressed in linear data coordinates, but all cyclic actions are spirals because there are no straight lines and also because lines cannot "go through" or "return into" themselves. There can be no experientially demonstrable circles as continuous lines "returning into" themselves. Lines cannot return into themselves. Therefore matter is a cyclic self-interfering *knotting*; whereas radiation's waves are non-self-interfering *spirals*.
$$\frac{\text{matter}}{\text{radiation}} = \frac{\text{knots}}{\text{coils}}$$
Which reads: matter is to radiation as knots of rope are to coils of rope. Because there are no planes, a wave is a spiral. A spiral articulated in a direction perpendicular to our observation presents an illusory, wavilinear, planar profile.
##### 529.05
Generalized principles are often called constants by the semantics of scientific specialization, whose viewpoint is myopic. Constancy is a time concept. Time is relative and cyclically terminal. Time is energetic, physical, and ever finitely evolving—which is the opposite of "constant."
##### 529.06
Minimal consciousness evokes a nonsimultaneous sequence, ergo *time*. Time is not the fourth dimension and should not be so identified. Time is only a relative observation, a set of local sequences of experience afterimage formulation lags of the brain. Time is not a function of space. We can discuss time as if there were no time. It exists in weightless, metaphysical conceptuality. There is a metaphysical timeless time, just as there is a difference between physical tetrahedron and metaphysically conceptual but weightless, substanceless tetrahedron. Instantaneity would eliminate otherness, time, and self-and-other-awareness. Instantaneity and eternity are both timeless: they are the same.
##### 529.07
The concept of being alive may be inherent only in the eternal principle of differentiability, and of a theoretical number system, and of complexes of different numbers. Seeming consciousness and life may well be inherent only in mind-conceivable theories of differentiations. To perceive of "truth" involves the concept of "nontruth," ergo, of differentiation. An intellectual integrity of Universe evokes its own theoretical evolvement of a Universe of ever-multiplying problems and pure-principles solutions and regeneration of multiplying problem-solving. (See Secs. [[217.03]] and [[1005.50]].)
##### 529.08
The measuring act always involves time increments of our totally available time of life and may be conceived of only in respect to local events in nonsimultaneous Universe, there being no overall *largest* size to be referred to. Einstein was able to show that every individual's every-time employed yardstick of time (that is, the cyclic increment of imaginary reference) is always unique and different from every other's, a difference that amplifies greatly as we enter into astronomical observing by individual instruments, whose progressively designed reduction of tolerated error is always unique and only calculable relative to each experience.
##### 529.09
It is a consequence of the phenomenon time and a consequence of the phenomena we call afterimage, or thinking, or reconsideration, which has inherent lags in the time rates of recallability of the various special-cases and types of experiences. So the very consequence of awareness is to impose the phenomenon time upon eternal, timeless Universe.
##### 529.10
It is one of the strange facts of experience that when we try to think into the future, our thoughts jump backward. It may well be that nature has some fundamental metaphysical law by which opening up what we call the future also opens up the past in equal degree. The metaphysical law corresponds to the physical law of engineering that "every action has an equal and opposite reaction. " (See [[Sec. 1031.16]].)
##### 529.11
The future is not linear. Time is wavilinear. Experience is expansive, omnidirectionally including and refining the future. It probably consists of omnidirectional wave propagations. We seem to be talking about a greater range of known cycling. It is both a subjective "now" and an objective "now"; a forward-looking now and a backward- looking now which combine synergetically as one complete "now." Because every action has both a reaction and a resultant, every now must have both a fading past and a dawning future.
# 529.20 No-Time-at-All
##### 529.201
Intellect is top speed, which is instantaneous, being vastly faster than the speed of light and all radiation. Radiation's 700 million miles an hour is very slow in comparison to 700 million miles a minute and infinitely slower than 700 million miles in no-time-at-all—which is the rate at which intellect operates, being able to jump instantly to consideration of stars that are operating millions of years ago and thousands of light- years away.
##### 529.21
The top speed of radiation is simply the minimum operational lag before making the cosmic leap to the eternal no-speed, where the instantaneity spontaneous to a child's conceptioning is normal and eternal. Not that it is ever lost. None of the differentiation of the generalized principles is lost. Many principles as yet undiscovered are nonetheless operative. Understanding is exquisitely total. Understanding includes a large increment of intuition to account for the as-yet-undiscovered but nonetheless operative generalized principles. (See [[Sec. 1056.03]].)
##### 529.22
Motion is not relative to *standing still*. Motion is relative to eternity, which is no-time-at-all. No-time-at-all is inherent in the generalized principles which, to be valid, must have no exceptions and be eternal, thus eternally true. The beginning of awareness, of intellect, is otherness. The whole complex of different and nonintercontradictory, all- interaccommodative, generalized principles is eternal. Complexity is eternal. The principle of mass interattraction of complex otherness is eternal and relates all the eternal complexity to our eternal system interfunctionings.
##### 529.23
Newton's norm, as disclosed in his first phrase of his first law of motion, was "at rest." Newton's stars were "fixed." The planets and the moons of the planets, as well as comets, were in motion because hurled into motion by explosion from "fixed" stars.
##### 529.24
Einstein's philosophy did not hold the speed of radiation unfettered in vacuo to be "very fast." It assumed this speed to be normal, and all other lesser speeds manifest in physical Universe to be occasioned by local interferences, shunting independent phenomena into local circuit repatternings.
# 529.30 Eternal Instantaneity
##### 529.301
We have a new norm. The phenomenon lag is simply due to the limited mechanism of the brain; we have to wait for the afterimage to be realized.
##### 529.31
The norm of Einstein is absolute speed instead of "at rest" . . . what we called instantaneous in our innocence of yesterday. We get to lesser and lesser lags, and we then approach eternal instantaneity—no lag at all. We have now learned, however, from our generalizations of the great complexity of the interactions of principles, that as we are disembarrassed of our local exclusively physical chemistry, our local information- sensing devices, what will be realized is an eternal and instantaneous awareness of all the potentials that ever existed. All the great metaphysical integrity of the individual, which is potential in the complex of interactions of the generalized principles, will always and only coexist eternally. I am saying that the arrival rate of intellect vs. the top-speed of radiation manifests the minimum lag short of no lag at all, i.e., "eternal."
##### 529.32
Intuition derives from the approximate instantaneity of intellect, which is much faster than any physical phenomenon like the brain lags. Intuition is the absolute- velocity insistence of the intellect upon the laggingly reflexed brain to call its attention to significance of various special-case, brain-registered, experience relationships. Intuition is intellect coming instantly in at highest speed into dominance over lower-speed, lagging brain reflexing.
##### 529.33
Eternity is simply highest speeds: not "at rest," because it gets there in no- time-at-all: Complete intellection + Otherness + No-time-at-all.
##### 529.34
Differentiation of functions is inherently eternal and implicit to the plurality of generalized principles, which are everywhere nonredundant, redundancy being a temporal consequence of brain-lagged dullness of comprehension and ignorance.
# 529.40 Now Hourglass

$$
\begin{gathered}
\text{The macro-microcosm of minimum frequency of omnidirectional self-} \\
\text{interference restraints, whose greatest degrees of outward expan-} \\
\text{sion occur when the last of the least-frequent, self-interfering} \\
\text{cycles is completed (and cycles, being geodesic great circles,} \\
\text{must always interfere with one another twice in each wave-} \\
\text{and-frequency cycle, which twiceness imposes eternally} \\
\text{regenerative cosmic resonance with inherent quanta-,} \\
\text{wave-, frequency-, time, interference-, mass-, and} \\
\text{effort-aspects), in exquisite speed-of-light, 700-} \\
\text{million-miles-per-hour, self-interfering radia-} \\
\text{tion patterns energetically self-tying into} \\
\text{concentric knots of relative mass in a} \\
\text{mathematically idealized variety of} \\
\text{symmetrical-asymmetrical atomic} \\
\text{assemblages, whose local sub-} \\
\text{visibly resolvable micro-} \\
\text{orbiting induces the su-} \\
\text{perficially deceptive,} \\
\text{motionless thingness} \\
\text{of mini-micro-} \\
\text{microcosm of} \\
\mathbf{NOW} \\
\text{which progres-} \\
\text{sive, experience-} \\
\text{won, knowledge mul-} \\
\text{tiplies by progressive, intel-} \\
\text{lectually contrived, instrumen-} \\
\text{tally implemented, exploratory subdi-} \\
\text{viding into microscopically ever-greater} \\
\text{speeds of transformation through insect-phase} \\
\text{magnitudes dividing into the micro-organisms} \\
\text{phase, and then dividing progressively into molecular} \\
\text{and atomic phases; then phasing into radioactivity at 700-} \\
\text{million-miles-per-hour, expanding once more into the micro-} \\
\text{eternity of no-time into the macrocosm and repeat, ad infinitum....}
\end{gathered}
$$