---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---
##### 531.01
Life is the eternal present in the temporal. Life is the *now* event with reaction *past* and resultant *future.* Each individual life is a special-case articulation of the infinite variety of "scenarios" to be realized within the multidegrees of freedom and vast range of frequencies of actions that are accommodated by the generalized laws governing Universe. With death, the individual probably loses nothing but gains the insight and knowledge of all others as well.
##### 531.02
The average of all plus (+) and minus (-) weights of Universe is zero weight. The normal is weightless, eternal. What we call life is a complex of multidimensional oscillations and palpitations among various degrees of positive and negative asymmetries, whose multivariant lags in conceptioning bring about what *seems* to be temporal substance and time. The complex *woof* of a plurality of lag rates—of afterimages and recalls—produces pure, weightless, metaphysical images, produces the awareness we speak of as life.
##### 531.03
Lags are intervals—nothing. Instantaneity would eliminate otherness, time, and self-and-other-awareness. Instantaneity and eternity are both timeless: they are the same. Eternity contains time; time does not contain eternity. The relationship is irreversible. The contained time of eternity provides eternal awareness.
##### 531.04
**Organisms**: Atoms are inanimate systems. Physically we consist entirely of atoms. When we die, all the atoms are there. Whatever life was, it was not the inanimate atom systems that persist after death. At the virus level of professional concern the scientists say you can identify all the physical substances present as inanimate crystals. Biological science initiated the investigations that successively discovered cells, genes, chromosomes, and other biological design controls. Needing to check their design control theories, they employed the swift succession of generations of the fruit fly and then discovered the even swifter succession of the generations of the tobacco mosaic virus. This brought the scientists into a very new realm of virology where they found nuclear physicists, biologists, and chemists all involved. Though the virologists have discovered DNA-RNA bioprogramming controls, they have found only inanimate atomic constituents. Because their whole series of events started with biology, they have as yet—unthinkingly and mistakenly—retained the "animate" relationship. Biology began with the whole seemingly living organisms consisting of protoplasm and viruses, but they misidentified the viral substances as physically "animate," when life is not physical. The error lies in the fact that humanity long ago misassumed that the organism employed by life is the life itself instead of merely the vehicle—as if the telephone was the communication itself instead of merely the instrument.
##### 531.05
The now overspecialized scientists seem to have forsaken epistemological significances; they seem to have lost their gift for philosophical thinking. So the focus on the animate aspect of physical things has been continued by the church. Many religious organizations establish their power by maintaining that life is the physical apparatus it employs and by basing their ideals on "living" physical images. If life were the physical, we really could make synthetic men, laboratory animals, and artificial intelligence; we never will. We can make brainy robots, but we cannot make thinking, loving life.
##### 531.06
Science is arriving at a phase of required new comprehension in which we will be discovering that all of the physical cases experimentally discovered are only special cases of the generalized principles of generalized systems—i.e., the vector equilibrium.
# 531.10 Life and Death
##### 531.11
Life's employed apparatus is microconstituted by the unique frequency identifications of the chemical elements and their compounded atoms, as well as the humanly tune-in-able "color" frequencies of the comprehensive electromagnetic spectrum's concentrically interpositioned occurrences-usually published in a chart of positions along any one radius of the comprehensive concentric system. Death's reality is constituted by all the vector equilibrium null intervals between and beyond—inwardly and outwardly—the comprehensive electromagnetic frequencies. (See Secs. [[262.10]] and [[526.25]])

