---
m-replication: true
m-emDash: true
m-headings: true
m-images: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-italics: true
m-proofread:
m-links-2:
m-issues:
m-range:
---


# 534.01 Definition
##### 534.011
There is the phenomenon known as the Doppler effect, of which humans took much note in the early days of the steam locomotive. The high tone of the locomotive's whistle as it approached changed to an increasingly low pitch as the locomotive went by. This is because the sound waves of perturbed air coming toward us at about 700 miles per hour from the approaching locomotive were crowded together, piled up, by the locomotive's own independent speed of about 60 miles per hour. Similarly, the waves were thinned out by the locomotive's speeding away.
##### 534.02
The Doppler effect also may be operating in our historical-event-cognition system in such a manner that the relative frequency and wavelengths of approaching historical events are compacted and receding ones are thinned out. It could be that by traveling mentally backward in history as far as we have any information, humans could—like drawing a bowstring—impel our thoughts effectively into the future.
##### 534.03
The Doppler effect, or wave-reception frequency modulation caused by the relative motions of the observer and the observed, are concentric wave systems that compound as fourth- and fifth-power accelerations. In the summary of synergetic corollaries ([[Sec. 240.44]]), fifth- and sixth-powering are identified as products of multiplication by frequency doublings and treblings, etc., in radiational or gravitational wave systems.
##### 534.04
The Doppler effect is usually conceived of as an approximately "linear" experience. "You," the observer, stand beside a railway track (which is a "linear" model); a swift train approaches with whistle valve held open (at a constant-frequency pitch as heard "on board" by the engineer "blowing" the whistle). The whistle sound comes to you at the atmospheric sound-wave speed of approximately 700 linear miles per hour, but the train is speeding toward you at an additional 60 linear miles per hour. The train's motion reduces the interval between the successive wave emissions, which in effect decreases the wavelength, which gives it "higher" pitch as heard at your remote and "approached" hearing position. After the train goes by, the train runs away from each successive wave emission, thus increasing the interval between wave "crests" and therefore lengthening the wave-reception intervals, which apparently "lowers" the pitch as *you* hear it, but not as others elsewhere may hear it. This is pure observational hearing relativity. But the real picture of the Doppler effect is not linear; it is omnidirectional.
##### 534.05
The Doppler effect may also be explained in omnidirectional, experience- patterning conceptionality, which is more informative than the familiar linear conceptioning of the railroad train and "you" at the crossing. Suppose "you" were flying in an air transport that exploded; because of the sudden change in pressure differential between your innards and your out'ards at high altitude, you personally have just been "exploded" into many separate parts, which are receding from one another at high velocity. A series of secondary explosions follows elsewhere from exploding "you" and at various locales in the center of the galaxy of exploding debris, as one item after another of the late airplane's explosive cargo is reached by progressive local-conflagration-heat concentrations. The sound waves of the successive explosions speed after your receding parts, amongst which are your two ear diaphragms, as yet "stringily" interconnected with your exploding brain cells, which "hear" the explosion's sound waves first at low pitch. But as your parts explode from one another at a decelerating rate because of air friction, etc., the waves of remote-explosion sounds "shorten" and pitches go "up." Now consider many separate, nonsimultaneous, secondary explosions of your various exploding parts, all of varying intensities of energetic content and in varying degrees of remoteness, and realize that the decelerations and accelerations of Doppler effects will render some of the explosive reverberations infra and some ultra to your tuning-range limits of hearing, so that the sum total of *heard* events provides very different total conceptioning as heard from various points in the whole galaxy of exploding events, whose separate components would tend to new grouping concentrations.
##### 534.06
Because the humanly "heard" events are geared directly to the atmospheric waves with an average speed of 700 miles per hour, and the humanly "seen" events operate a million times faster and are geared to electromagnetic fields operating independent of and beyond the atmospheric biosphere of Earth, the visual and hearable information is macrocosmically so far out of synchronization that the stroboscopic effect, which can make the wheels of automobiles sometimes appear to be going backward in amateur moving pictures, can cause society to misinterpret the direction and speed of vital events—some may be seen as going in the opposite direction from the realities of universal evolution.