---
m-replication: true
m-images: true
m-headings: true
m-links: true
m-equations: true
m-emDash: true
m-italics:
m-issues:
m-links-2:
m-structure:
---


##### 427.01
Though I have found an omnidirectional vector equilibrium matrix and the complex of momentarily positively and negatively asymmetrical intertransformabilities pulsating through the equilibrious state, I knew that nature would never allow temporal humans to omniarrest cosmic kinetics at the timeless, i.e., eternal equilibrium zero. But experimenting in cryogenics, taking energy-as-heat out of the insulatingly isolated liquefied gaseous element system approaching absolute zero, we learn that as the temperature gets lower and lower, an increasingly orderly and an increasingly symmetrical, microgeometrical patterning occurs—the Platonic solids appear to become more symmetrically uniform. Contrariwise, when energy-as-heat is progressively reintroduced, the kinetics increase and the complex of conceptual behavior becomes progressively asymmetric. At lowest cryogenic temperatures the omnigrametric interpatterning approaches isotropic vector matrix equilibrium.
##### 427.02
The progressive energy-starving experimental strategy reveals that nature always transforms through, and relative centrally to, the omni-isotropic-vector-matrix equilibrium, while kinetically emphasizing the mildly off-center asymmetric aspects. Nature grows her crystals positively or negatively askew—she twists and spirals around the local, three-way great-circle grid systems in the alternate positive-negative geodesic complementations. Such kinetic considerations of closest packing are significant.
##### 427.03
The isotropic vector matrix equilibrium multiplies omnidirectionally with increasing frequency of concentric, vector-equilibrium-conformed, closest-packed uniradius sphere shells, conceptually disclosing the cosmically prime unique sequence of developed interrelationships and behaviors immediately surrounding a prime nucleus. While the physicist processes his nuclear problems with nonconceptual mathematics, the conceptual isotropic vector matrix equilibria model provides a means of comprehending all the electromagnetic and nonelectromagnetic energy valving and angular shunting controls of the solid state transistors.
##### 427.04
With one layer of spheres around the nuclear sphere we will get one set of angular interrelationships of the surrounding spheres with the nucleus and with one another. With two layers of spheres around the nuclear sphere a different angular relationship between the nuclear sphere and its intersurrounding spheres occurs (see Sec. [[415]]). At the third layer of enclosure some of the angular interrelationship patternings begin to repeat themselves. Thus we are able to in ventory what we are going to call a nuclear set of unique interrelationship patterns.
##### 427.05
The isotropic vector matrix multiplies concentrically. But because vectors are discrete, the isotropic vector matrix's lines do not go to infinity. Their length must always represent sum-totally the total energy of eternally regenerative physical Universe. No matter how high the internal frequency of finite Universe, the overall vector equilibrium is of unit magnitude. This magnitude corresponds to that of the speed of radiation uninterfered with in vacuo. We find that the different frequencies in their phases of symmetry identify precisely with what we now call the Magic Numbers identifying the successively reoccurring five peaks in relative abundance of atomic isotopes. (See Sec. [[995]].)
##### 427.06
1 am confident that I have discovered and developed the conceptual insights governing the complete family of variables involved in realization by humanity of usable access to the ultimate computer . . . ultimate meaning here: the most comprehensive, incisive and swiftest possible information-storing, retrieving, and variably processing facility with the least possible physical involvement and the least possible investment of human initiative and cosmic energization.
##### 427.07
Science evolved the name "solid state" physics when, immediately after World War II, the partial conductors and partial resistors—later termed "transistors"— were discovered. The phenomena were called "solid state" because, without human devising of the electronic circuitry, certain small metallic substances accidentally disclosed electromagnetic pattern-holding, shunting, route-switching, and frequency-valving regularities, assumedly produced by the invisible-to-humans atomic complexes constituting those substances. Further experiment disclosed unique electromagnetic circuitry characteristics of various substances without any conceptual model of the "subvisible apparatus." Ergo, the whole development of the use of these invisible behaviors was conducted as an intelligently resourceful trial-and-error strategy in exploiting invisible and uncharted-by-humans natural behavior within the commonsensically "solid" substances. The addition of the word "state" to the word "solid" implied "regularities" in an otherwise assumedly random conglomerate. What I have discovered goes incisively and conceptually deeper than the blindfolded assumptions and strategies of solid state physics— whose transistors' solid state regularities seemingly defied discrete conceptuality and scientific generalization and kinetic omnigramming.
# 427.10 Invisible Circuitry of Nature
##### 427.11
We have here the disclosure of a new phase of geometry employing the invisible circuitry of nature. The computer based on such a design could be no bigger than the subvisibly dimensioned domain of a pinhead's glitter, with closures and pulsations which interconnect at the vector equilibrium stage and disconnect at the icosahedron stage in Milky-Way-like remoteness from one another of individual energy stars.
##### 427.12
As we get into cryogenics—taking energy-as-heat out of the system—the geometries become more regular and less asymmetric, thus fortifying the assumptions of synergeticsr because the geometrically "twinkling" asymmetries of kinetics progressively subside and approach, but do not quite attain, absolute cessation at the isotropic vector equilibrium state.
##### 427.13
The atomically furnished isotropic vector matrix can be described as an omnidirectional matrix of "lights," as the four-dimensional counterpart of the two- dimensional light-bulb-matrix of the Broadway-and-Forty-secondStreet, New York City billboards with their fields of powerful little light bulbs at each vertex which are controlled remotely off-and-on in intensity as well as in color. Our four-dimensional, isotropic vector matrix will display all the atom "stars" concentrically matrixed around each isotropic vector equilibrium's nuclear vertex. By "lighting" the atoms of which they consist, humans' innermost guts could be illustrated and illuminated. Automatically turning on all the right lights at the right time, atomically constituted, center-of-being light, "you," with all its organically arranged "body" of lights omnisurrounding "you," could move through space in a multidimensional way just by synchronously activating the same number of lights in the same you-surrounding pattern, with all the four-dimensional optical effect (as with two-dimensional, planar movies), by successively activating each of the lights from one isotropic vector vertex to the next, with small, local "movement" variations of "you" accomplished by special local matrix sequence programmings.
##### 427.14
We could progressively and discretely activate each of the atoms of such a four-dimensional isotropic vector matrix to become "lights," and could move a multidimensional control "form" through the isotropic multidimensional circuitry activating field. The control form could be a "sphere," a "vector equilibrium," or any other system including complex you-and-me, et al. This multidimensional scanning group of points can be programmed multidimensionally on a computer in such a manner that a concentric spherical cluster of four-dimensional "light" points can be progressively "turned on" to comprise a "substance" which seemingly moves from here to there.
##### 427.15
This indeed may be what Universe is doing! Employing a scanner of each of our atoms, this is one way humans could have been radio-transmitted and put aboard Earth from any place in Universe. The naked human eye cannot differentiate visually the separate dots of a matrix when their frequency of uniform-moduled spaced occurrence is greater than one hundred to the linear inch, or ten thousand to the square inch, or one million to the cubic inch. Let us radiantly activate isotropically and modularly grouped local atoms of a human's physical organism in such a manner that only one million per cubic inch out of all the multibillions of actual atoms per cubic inch of which humans consist, are radiationally, ergo visibly, activated. The human, thus omni-internally illumined by the local one-in-one-million atomic "street lamps," could be realistically scanned by discrete "depth-sounding" devices and programmed to move "visibly" through an omnidimensional, highfrequency, isotropic light matrix field "mass."
##### 427.16
Employing as broadcastable channels the 25 great circles of the vector equilibrium all of which pass through all the "K" (kissing) points of intertangency of all uniform radius, closest-packed spheres of all isotropic vector matrixes; and employing as local holding patterns the 31 great circles of the icosahedron; and employing as a resonance field all the intertransforming spheres and between-sphere spaces; and employing the myriadly selectable, noninterfering frequencies of such propagatable intertransformation resonance; it is evidenced that the isotropic vector matrixes of various atomic elements may be programmed to receive, store, retrieve, and uniquely constellate to provide computer functioning of unprecedented capacity magnitude within approximately invisible atomic domains. The control mechanism for the operational programming of such microcosmic "computers" will be visible and dextrous and will be keyed by the Mite orientations of the primenumber-one-volumed"Couplers."5
(Footnote 5: For an exposition of the behavior of Mites and Couplers see Sec. [[953]] and [[954]].
##### 427.17
The ultra micro computer (UMC) employs step-up, step-down, transforming visible controls between the invisible circuitry of the atomic computer complex pinhead- size programmer and the popular outdoor, high-inthe-sky, "billboard" size, human readability.