Historically long perspective  
Suggests it as possible  
That many of the intriguing  
Yet ineffable experiences  
Which humanity thus far  
Has been unable to explain,  
And, therefore, treats with only superstitiously,  
May embrace phenomena  
Which in due course  
Could turn out to be complexes  
Of physically demonstrable realities  
Which might even manifest  
Generalized principles of Universe.  
  
For this and similar reasons  
I have paid a lot of attention  
To ancient _numerology,_  
Thinking that it might contain  
Important bases for further understanding  
Of the properties of mathematics  
And of the intertransformative  
Structurings and destructurings  
Of the cosmic scenario yclept  
"Eternally self-regenerative Universe."  
  
My intuition does not find it illogical  
That humanity has developed and retained  
The demisciences of  
_Astrology_ and _numerology___  
_Demi_ because they are  
Only partially fortified by experimental proofs__  
Which nonetheless challenge us tantalizingly  
To further explorations  
Within which it may be discovered  
That generalized scientific laws  
Are, indeed, eternally operative.  
  
Our observational awareness  
And Newton's proof  
Of the mass-attraction law  
Governing the Moon's powerful tidal pull  
On the Earth's oceans,  
In coincidence with our awareness  
Of the Moon phase periodicities  
Of female humans' menstrual tides,  
Gave the Moon's (men's month's) name  
To that human blood flow.  
Conceivably there could be  
Many other effects of celestial bodies  
Upon terrestrially dwelling human lives.  
  
In the late 1930s,  
When I was science and technology consultant  
On its editorial staff, with Russell Davenport  
Then managing editor, of _Fortune_ magazine,  
I found him to be deeply involved with _astrology._  
Russell couldn't understand why I was not actively excited  
By the demiscience__astrology,  
Since the prime celestial data derived  
From scientific observations.  
I was not excited  
Because I had no experience data  
That taught me incisively  
Of any unfailingly predictable influence  
Upon myself or other Earthians  
Which unerringly corresponded  
With the varying positions of the solar planets  
At the time of the respective human births.  
While the planetary interpositionings  
At any given time had been scientifically established,  
I had no scientifically cogent means for exploring  
Their effect upon terrestrial inhabitants.  
  
On the other hand, I found many cogent clues  
For exploring the ancient demiscience of numerology.  
Ancient numerologists developed  
Many tantalizingly logical theories,  
Some of which were  
Partially acceptable to formal mathematics,  
Such as enumeration by "congruence in modulo eight,"  
Or, "congruence in modulo ten,"  
Or in increments of twelve.  
  
"Congruence in modulo ten" seemed  
Obviously induced by  
The convenience of the human's ten fingers  
As memory-augmenting,  
Sequentially bendable,  
Counting devices of serial experiences.  
Their common appendages of ten fingers each  
Provided humans with "natural" and familiar sets  
Of experience aggregates  
To match with other newly experienced aggregates  
As congruent sets.  
  
There was also the popular enumeration system  
Based on modulo twelve.  
Human counting systems of twelve were adopted  
Because the decimal system  
Does not rationally embrace  
The prime number three.  
Since humanity had so many threefold experiences,  
Such as that of the triangle's stability,  
Or that of the father-mother-child relationships,  
Humanity needed an accounting system  
That could be evenly and alternatively subdivided  
In increments either  
Of one, or two, or three.  
Ergo, "congruence in modulo twelve"  
Was spontaneously invented.  
  
"Invention" means  
To bring into novel special-case use  
An eternal and universal principle  
Which scientific experiment and comprehension  
May attest to be generalized principles.  
  
"Etymology" means  
The scientific study of words and their origin.  
Through etymology man gave names  
To their abstract number set concepts.  
  
English is a crossbred  
Worldian language.  
It is interwoven with Anglo-Saxon,  
Old German, Sanskrit, Latin and Greek roots  
Interspersed with Polynesian, Magyar, Tatar, et al.  
The largest proportion of English words  
Are derived from India's Sanskrit,  
Which itself embraces hundreds  
Of lesser known root languages.  
  
There are a few words whose origins  
Have thus far defied scientific identification.  
There are not many unidentified root words.  
Those of unknown origins  
Are classified etymologically as "Old Words."  
All but one of the world-around  
Words or "names" for numbers  
Are classified etymologically as "Old Words."  
The one exception is the name for "five,"  
Whose conceptual derivation comes directly or indirectly  
From word roots identifying the human "hand."  
None of the other names for numbers  
In any of the human languages  
Have pragmatic identifiability  
With names for any other known  
Physical-experience concepts.  
  
To accommodate the cerebrations  
Of those who are reflexively conditioned  
To recount their experiences  
In twelvefold aggregates__  
That is, "congruence in modulo twelve"__  
Unique names were etymologically evolved  
For the numbers _eleven_ and _twelve_  
As well as for the numbers _one_ through _ten._  
In the new world-around-accepted computational system  
Of "congruence in modulo ten"__  
That is, the _decimal_ system__  
The numbers zero through ten  
Are called "cardinal" numbers.  
  
But the English names "eleven" and "twelve,"  
Or French names "onze" and "douze,"  
Or the Germans' "elf" and "zwoelf,"  
Likewise are cardinal numbers  
In the duodecimal system,  
And their cardinal names are used  
Even when employed in the decimal system.  
  
Following twelve in the duodecimal system  
The number names are no longer _cardinal._  
They are called _ordinal_ numbers, which are produced  
By combining one, two, or three with ten:  
Thir-teen, four-teen, fif-teen, etcetera,  
Which are three-ten and four-ten, alliterated  
In English, French, and German.  
It is not until thirteen is reached  
That the process of counting ordinally (three plus ten)  
Is employed in the ordinal naming of numbers  
Where numbers are communicable by sound.  
  
There are, however, number systems  
Based on other pragmatic considerations.  
Roman numerals constituted  
An exclusively visual method  
Of tactilely scoring or scratching  
Of a one-by-one exclusively "visual" experience.  
When nonliterates were assigned  
To counting items such as sheep,  
They made one tactile scratch  
For one visually experienced sheep,  
And a second tactile scratch  
As another sheep passed visually,  
And another scratch  
As the next sheep passed.  
The scratch was not a number,  
It was only a tactile reaction  
To visual experience.  
It was a one-by-one,  
Tooth-by-tooth intergearing  
Of two prime  
Sensorially apprehending systems__  
Those of touch and sight.  
  
While literate you, in retrospect, could say  
That you see _three_ scratches,  
That is reflexively occasioned  
Because you have learned to see groups  
And because you have  
A sound word for a set of three;  
But nonliterate Roman servants who were scoring  
Did not have to have number words  
To match with tactile one-by-one scratching  
Their one-by-one visually experienced,  
One-by-one passing-by sheep.  
The man doing the scratching  
Did not have to have  
Any verbal number words or set concepts.  
Those landlords, priests, bankers,  
Or unsolicited "protection" furnishers  
Who were interested  
In trading, taxing, or extracting  
Life-sustaining wealth__  
As sheep or wheat productivity__  
Alone were concerned  
With the specific total numbers of scratches  
And of the total sheep or bags of grain  
The ignorant servants had scratchingly matched.  
From these total numbers  
They calculated how many sheep or bags  
They could extract for their taxes  
Or landlord's tithe,  
Or protectionist's fee,  
Or banker's "interest"  
Without totally discouraging  
The sheepherders' or farmers' efforts.  
  
"Pays" means land.  
The shepherds and farmers  
Were known as pagans  
Or paysants, peasants,  
I.e., land-working illiterates.  
  
Because the first millennium A.D.  
Roman Empire dominating Mediterranean world  
Was so pragmatically mastered  
By landlords and their calculating priests,  
It is in evidence  
That the Roman numerals constituted only  
A one-by-one scoring system  
In which the V for five and X for ten  
Were tactilely "sophisticated" supervisor's  
_Tallying_ or _totaling_ check marks  
Which graphically illustrated  
Their thumb's angular jutting out  
From the four parallel packed fingers  
Or digits of the totaler's free hand.  
On the other hand, the intellectually conceived Arabic  
numerals  
Were graphic symbols  
For the named sets  
Of spontaneously perceived number aggregates.  
The Arabic numerals  
Did not come into use in the Mediterranean world  
Until 700 A.D.  
This was a thousand years after the Greeks had developed  
Their intellectually conceived _geometry._  
  
The 700 A.D. introduction of Arabic numerals  
Into the knowledge-monopolized economic transactions  
Of the ignorance-enweakening Roman Empire  
And Mediterranean European world in general  
Occurred under the so-called "practical" assumption  
That the Arabic numerals were only  
Economical "shorthand" symbols  
For the Roman scratches.  
To the nonliterate ninety-nine percent of society,  
It was obviously much easier to make a "3" squiggle  
Than to make three separate vertical scratch strokes.  
But to the illiterate the symbols  
Did not conjure forth a number name.  
  
The earliest calculating machine  
Is the Chinese-invented abacus.  
It is an oblong wooden frame  
Which is subdivided  
Into a large rectilinear bottom  
And small top rectilinear areas  
By a horizontal wooden bar  
Running parallel to the top of the frame.  
The frame's interior space is further subdivided  
By a dozen or more  
Perpendicularly strung parallel wires  
Or thin bamboo rods.  
There are four beads  
Strung loosely into each of the wires  
Below the horizontal crossbar,  
And one bead strung loosely  
Above the bar on each wire.  
Start use of the abacus  
With all the beads at bottom  
Of their compartments.  
In this all-lowered condition,  
The columns are all "empty."  
To put the number one  
Into the first column on the right,  
The topmost of the bottom four beads  
Is elevated to the horizontal mid-bar.  
To put the number two,  
Two bottom beads are elevated to this bar.  
To put five into the first column,  
Lower all four bottom beads  
And elevate the top bead.  
To enter nine, leave the top bead elevated  
And push up four beads  
In the bottom section  
On the first right-hand wire.  
To enter ten,  
Lower all beads in the right-hand column  
Both above and below the crossbar;  
Now elevate one bead In the bottom section  
Of the second column from the right.  
The first two right-hand columns read  
One and zero, respectively,  
Which spells out "ten."  
The totaling bead  
With a value of five In the separate compartment  
At the head of each column  
Permitted the release to _inactive_ positioning  
At the bottom of their wires  
Of the one-by-one elevated bead aggregates.  
Lowering of all beads  
Permitted "empty columns" to occur.  
Moving of the tenness leftward  
Permitted progressive positioning,  
Which integrated or differentiated out  
As multiplication or division.  
  
To those familiar with its use,  
The tactile-visual patterns  
Of the bead positions of the abacus  
Could be mentally re-envisioned, or recalled  
And held as afterimage sets  
In the _image_-ination,  
Which could be mentally manipulated  
As columns of so many beads  
Which read out progressively  
As successively adjacent columns  
Of so many beads,  
Which, when reaching fiveness,  
Called for moving "up" the one bead  
Of the totaling head-compartment set,  
While releasing the previously aggregated  
Lower four beads  
To drop into their empty-column condition.  
When an additional four beads  
Were pushed upwardly in the column,  
An additional fiveness accrued.  
All the beads in the column were lowered,  
And one was entered  
On the bottom compartment  
Of the next leftward column,  
As the two columns now read as "ten."  
It was easier to enter  
Many columned numbers in the abacus  
And to add to them  
Multicolumned numbers.  
This process then permitted  
Multiplication and division as well.  
  
When an abacus was lost overboard or in the sands,  
The overseas or over-desert navigator  
Could sketch a picture  
Of the abacus in the sand  
Or on a piece of wood  
With its easily remembered columns.  
These abacus picturers invented  
The "arabic" or abacus numerals  
To represent the content  
Of the successive columnar content of beads.  
Obviously this abacus column imagining  
Called also for a symbol  
To represent an empty column,  
And that symbol became the cyphra__  
Or in England, cypher,  
Or in American, cipher,  
Or what we symbolize as 0,  
And much later renamed "zero"  
To eliminate the ambiguity  
Between the identity of the word cypher  
With the word for secret codes  
And the word for the empty number,  
All of which mathematical abacus elaboration  
Became known scoffingly as "abracadabra"  
To the 99 percent nonliterate world society,  
And to the temporal power leaders  
Who feared its portent  
As an insidious disrupter  
Of their ignorance-fortified authority.  
  
Because of its utterly pragmatic bias,  
The Roman culture had no numerical concept  
Of "nothing"  
That corresponds to the abacus's empty column__  
That is, the idea of "no sheep"  
Was ridiculous. Humans cannot eat "no sheep."  
When the Europeans first adopted the Arabic numerals  
in 700 A.D.  
As "shorthand" for Roman numeral aggregates,  
They of course encountered the Arabic cypher,  
But they had no thinkably identifiable experiences to  
associate with it.  
"Nothing" obviously lacked "value."  
For this reason, the Mediterranean Europeans  
Thought of the cypher only as a decoration  
Signifying the end of a communication  
In the way that we use the word "over"  
In contemporary radio communication.  
The cypher was just an end _period,_  
Just a decorative terminal symbol.  
  
It was not until 1200 A.D.  
Or five hundred years later,  
That the works of a Persian named Algorismi  
Were translated into  
Latin and introduced into Europe.  
Algorismi lived in Carthage, North Africa.  
He wrote the first treatise explaining  
How the Arabic cypher functioned calculatively  
By progressively moving leftward  
The newly attained tenness  
By elevating one bead at the bottom  
Of the bottom section  
Of the next leftwardly adjacent column in multiplication  
And next rightwardly in division.  
Thus complex computation could be effected  
Which had been impossible with Roman numerals.  
The Arabic cypher had been used  
For several millenniums  
In the computational manner,  
First in the Orient,  
Then in Babylon and Egypt.  
But such calculations had never before been made  
In the Roman Empire's Mediterranean world.  
No matter how intuitively  
A man might have felt  
About the probable significance  
Of the principle of leverage  
Or about the science of falling bodies,  
Previous to the knowledge  
Of the cypher's capabilities to position numbers,  
He could not compute  
Their relative effectiveness values  
Without "long" multiplication and division.  
  
The introduction into Europe  
Of the computational significance of the cypher  
Was an epoch-initiating event  
For it made it possible for _anybody_ to calculate.  
And this was the moment in which  
For the first time  
The Copernicuses and Tycho Brahes,  
The Galileos and Newtons,  
The Keplers and Leonardos  
Had computational ability.  
This broke asunder the Dark Ages  
With intellectual enlightenment  
Regarding the scientific foundations  
And technological responsibilities  
Of cosmic miracles,  
Now all the more miraculous  
As the everyday realizer  
Of all humanity's innate capabilities.  
  
When I first went to school in 1899,  
The shopkeepers in my Massachusetts town asked me  
If I had "learned to do my cyphers"  
By which key word__"cypher"__  
They as yet identified all mathematics.  
Even in 1970  
Accountants in India  
Are known officially as "cypherists."  
  
Tobias Dantzig, author of _Number: The Language of Science,_  
Has traced the etymological history  
Of the names for the numbers  
In all the known languages of the Earth.  
He finds the names for numbers all classifiable  
As amongst the "oldest" known words.  
Sir James Jeans said "Science is the attempt  
To set in order the facts of experience."  
Dantzig, being a good scientist,  
Undertook to set in order  
The experienced facts of the history  
Of the language of number names.  
He arranged them experimentally  
In their respective ethnic language columns.  
Juxtaposed in this way  
We are provided with new historical insights.  
For instance, we learn  
That if we are confronted  
With two numbers of different languages,  
Words that we have never seen before,  
And an authority assures us  
That one of these words means "one"  
And the other means "two,"  
And we are then asked to guess  
Which of them means "one"  
And which means "two,"  
We will be surprised to find  
That we can tell easily which is which.  
"One" in every language  
Starts with a vowel__  
Eins, un, odyn, unus, yet, ahed__  
And has vowel sound emphasis,  
While "two" always has a consonant sound in the front__  
Duo, zwei, dva, nee, tnayn, and so forth,  
And has a consonant sound emphasis.  
For instance, the Irish-Gaelic  
Whose ancestors were sea rovers  
Say "an" for one and "do" for two.  
These vowel-consonant relations  
Hold through into the teens__  
Eleven, twelve__in English  
Onze, douze__in French  
Elf, zwoelf__in German,  
With vowels for "oneness"  
And consonants for "twoness."  
  
Despite the dissimilarity in different languages  
For the names for the same experiences,  
And despite the unknown origins of the concepts  
From which all numbers but five were derived,  
The whole array of names for the numbers  
In different languages  
Makes it perfectly clear  
That the names given the numbers around the world  
Grew from the same fundamental  
Conceptioning and sound roots.  
  
In view of the foregoing discovery,  
We either have to say that some angels  
Invented the names for numbers  
And the phonetically soundable  
Alphabetical letter symbols  
With which to spell them  
And wrote them on parchments  
And air-dropped those number-name leaflets  
All around the spherical world,  
Thus teaching world-around people the same number names:  
Or we have to say that the numbers were invented  
By one-world-around-traveling people.  
  
However, if we adopt the latter possibility,  
It becomes obvious that no single generation of people  
Could, within its lifetime,  
Or, in fact, within many lifetimes  
Travel all around the world on foot,  
For the world's lands are islanded.  
But one way humans could get around,  
And in a relative hurry,  
Was by "high-seas-keeping" sailboats.  
It thus becomes intuitively logical  
To assume that sailors discovered  
And invented the numbers  
And inculcated their use  
All around the world.  
  
The Polynesians, we know,  
Sailed all over the Pacific.  
They probably sailed  
From there into the Atlantic and Indian oceans  
By riding ever-west-toward-east "Roaring Forties"__  
The Forty-South latitudes'  
Ever-eastward-revolving  
Waters and atmospheric winds  
Which circle around the vast Antarctic continent.  
The "Roaring Forties"  
Constitute a gigantic hydraulic-pneumatic merry-go-round,  
Which as demonstrated by  
World-around single-handing sailors of the 1960s  
Enables those who master its ferocious waters  
To encircle the world  
Within only a year's time.  
The Magellans, Cooks, and Slocums  
With slower vessels circumnavigated in two years,  
In contradistinction to the absolute inability  
To go all around the world on foot.  
The circumnavigation of the one-ocean world  
Which covers three-quarters of our planet  
Makes it obvious that the names for numbers  
Were conceived by the sailors.  
As Magellan, Cook, and later Slocum  
Came to the Tierra del Fuego islanders,  
They were surrounded by the islanders,  
Who lived by pillaging passing ships  
And must have been doing so  
Profitably for millenniums.  
To explain their sustained generations  
In an environment approximately devoid  
Of favorable human survival,  
Except by piracy and salvage  
Of the world-around sailing vessels  
Funneled through the narrow  
And incredibly tumultuous  
Waters of the Horn Running between Antarctica and South America,  
With often daily occurring  
One-hundred-feet high waves  
Cresting at the height  
Of ten-story buildings,  
Their thousand-ton tops  
Tumblingly sheared off to leeward  
By hundred-miles-an-hour superhurricanes  
Avoidance of whose worst ferocities  
Could be accomplished by winding  
Through the Strait of Magellan,  
Whose fishtrap-like strategic enticement  
Often lured Pacific-Atlantic sea traffic  
Into those pirates' forlorn domain.  
  
With eighty-five percent of Earth's dry land  
And ninety percent of its people  
Occupying and dwelling north of the Equator  
In the northern, or land-dominant, hemisphere;  
And with less than one-tenth of one percent of humanity  
Dwelling in the southernmost half  
Of the southern, or wave-dominated, Earth hemisphere,  
There is more and more scientific evidence accruing  
That sailors have been encircling the Earth  
South of Good Hope,  
North or south of Australia,  
And through the Horn  
Consciously and competently  
For many thousands of millenniums  
All unknown to the ninety-nine percent of humanity  
That has been "rooted" locally To their dry-land livelihoods.  
The European scholars of the last millennium  
Have considered the Polynesians to be illiterate  
And therefore intellectually inferior to Europeans  
Because the Polynesians didn't have a written history  
And used only a binary mathematics,  
Or "congruence in modulo two."  
The European scholars scoffed,  
"The Polynesians can only count to two."  
  
Since the Polynesians lived on the sea  
And were naked,  
Anything upon which they wrote  
Could be washed overboard.  
The Polynesians themselves  
Often fell overboard.  
They had no pockets  
Nor any other means  
Of retaining reminder devices  
Or calculating and scribing instruments  
Other than by rings  
That could not slip off  
From their fingers, ankles, wrists, and necks,  
Or by comblike items  
That were precariously  
Tied into the hair on their heads  
Or by rings piercing their ears and noses.  
These sea people had to invent ways of calculating and  
communicating  
Principally by brain-rememberable pattern images.  
They accomplished their rememberable patterns in sound,  
They remembered them in chants.  
With day after day of time to spend at sea  
They learned to sing and repeat these chants.  
Using the successive bow-to-stern,  
Canoe and dugout, stiffing ribs and thwarts  
Or rafters of their great rafts  
As re-minders of successive generations of ancestors,  
They methodically and recitationally recalled  
The experiences en-chantingly taught to them  
As a successive-generation,  
Oral relay system  
Specifically identified with the paired ancestral parents,  
Represented by each pair of ship's ribs or rafters.  
When they landed for long periods  
They upside-downed their longboats  
To provide dry-from-rain habitats.  
(The word for "roof" in Japan  
Also means "bottom of boat.")  
Staying longer than the wood-life of their hulls,  
They built long halls patterned after the hulls.  
Each successive column and roof rafter  
Corresponded with a rib of their long boat.  
Gradually they came to carve  
Each stout tree column's wood  
To represent an ancestor's image.  
Each opposing pair of parallel columns  
Represented a pair of ancestors:  
The male on the one hand  
And the female on the other hand.  
While most Europeans or Americans can recall  
Only ten or less generations of ancestors,  
In their chants  
The Polynesians can recall  
As much as one hundred generations  
Of paired ancestors,  
And their chants include  
The history of their important discoveries  
Such as of specific-star-to-specific-star directions  
to be followed at sea  
In order to navigate from here to there.  
While many of the words  
That their ancestors evolved  
To describe their discoveries  
Have lost present-day identification,  
They continue to sing these words  
In faithful confidence  
That their significant meaning  
Will some day emerge.  
Therefore, they teach their children  
As they themselves were taught__  
To chant successively the special stories  
Which include words of lost meaning__  
Describing each one of every pair of ancestors.  
That is why the Vikings  
Had their chants and sagas  
And why sailors all around the world  
Chant their chanties__"shanties"  
As they heave-hoed rhythmically together.  
  
Thus too did the Viking sing their sagas;  
And the Japanese and Indian sailors their ragas;  
And the Balinese sailors their gagas,  
Meaning "tales of the old people,"  
Amongst all those high-seas-living world dwellers  
Whose single language structure  
Served the thirty-million-square-mile living Maoris;  
Whereas hundreds of fundamentally different languages  
Were of static-existence necessity developed,  
For instance, by isolatedly living tribes  
Of exclusively inland-dwelling New Guineans.  
  
A nineteenth-century sailor's shanty goes  
"One, two, three, four  
Sometimes I wish there were more.  
Eins, zwei, drei, vier  
I love the one that's near.  
Yet, nee, same, see  
So says the heathen Chinese.  
Fair girls bereft  
Then will get left  
One, two, and three."  
  
As complex twentieth-century,  
Electronically actuated computers  
Have come into use,  
Ever improving methodology  
For gaining greater use advantage  
Of the computers' capabilities,  
As information storing,  
Retrieving, and interprocessing devices,  
Has induced reassessment  
Of relative mathematical systems' efficiencies.  
This in turn has induced  
Scientific discovery  
That binary computation  
Or operation by "congruence in modulo two"  
Is by far the most efficient and swift system  
For dealing universally with complex computation.  
In this connection we recall that the Phoenicians  
Also as sailor people  
Were forced to keep their mercantile records  
And recollections in sound patterns,  
In contradistinction to tactile and visual scratching__  
And that the Phoenicians to implement  
Their world-around trading  
Invented the Phoenician,  
Or Phonetic, or word-sound alphabet,  
With which to correlate and record graphically  
The various sound patterns and pronunciations  
Of the dialects they encountered In their world-around  
trading.  
And we suddenly realize  
How brilliant and conceptually advanced  
Were the Phoenicians' high-seas predecessors,  
The Polynesians,  
For the latter had long centuries earlier  
Discovered the binary system of mathematics  
Whose "congruence in modulo two"  
Provided unambiguous,  
Yes-no; go-no go,  
Cybernetic controls  
Of the electronic circuitry  
For the modern computer,  
As it had for millenniums earlier  
Functioned most efficiently  
In storing and retrieving  
All the special-case data  
In the brains of the Polynesians  
By their chanted programming  
And their persistent retention  
Of the specific but no-longer-comprehended  
Sound pattern words and sequences  
Taught by their successive  
Go-no go, male-female pairs of ancestors.  
This realization forces rejection of the European scholars'  
Former depreciation of the Polynesian competence,  
Which reversal is typical  
In both conceptioning and logic  
Of the myriad of concept reversals  
That are now taking place  
And are about to occur  
In vastly greater degree  
In the late twentieth-century academic world.  
The general education system  
Has not yet formally acknowledged  
The wholesale devaluation  
Of their formally held  
"Scholarly opinions and hypotheses,"  
But that devaluation  
Is indeed taking place  
And is powerfully manifest  
In the students' loss of esteem  
For their intellectual wares.  
  
All of the foregoing  
Newly dawning realizations  
Point up the significance  
Of the world-around physically cross-bred kinship  
Of the world's "one-ocean" sailors  
Whose Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian waters  
Were powerfully interconnected  
By the Antarctic-encircling  
"Roaring Forties."  
Polynesians, Phoenicians, Venetians, Frisians, Vikings  
(Pronounced "Veekings" by the Vikings)  
All alliterations of the same words.  
All evolved from the same ancestors.  
  
The sea was their normal life,  
And since three-quarters of the Earth's surface  
Is covered with water,  
"Normal" life would mean living on the sea.  
The Polynesians spontaneously conceive of an island  
As a "hole" in the ocean.  
Such conceptioning of a negative hole in experience  
Brought about their natural invention  
Of a symbol for nothing__the zero.  
This is negative space conceptioning  
And is evident in the Maori paintings.  
What is a peninsula to land people  
Is a "bay" to them.  
The Maori also look at males and females  
In the reverse primacy of the land-stranded Western  
culture.  
Seventy-five percent of the planet is covered by the sea.  
The sea is normal.  
The male is the sailor.  
The male is normal.  
The penis of the normal sea  
Intrudes into the female land.  
The bay is a penis of the sea.  
The females dwell upon the land.  
To the landsman the peninsula or penis  
Juts out into the ocean.  
  
On the Indian Ocean side of southeast Africa,  
The Zulus are linked with this round-the-world water  
sailing.  
They are probably evolved from the Polynesians of long  
ago  
Swept westward by the monsoons.  
I found some of the Zulu chiefs  
Wearing discs in their ears  
Upon which the cardinal points of the compass  
Were clearly marked.  
The "Long Ears" of Easter Island  
Had their ears pierced and stretched  
To accommodate their navigational devices.  
Many of the items which European society  
Has misidentified in the Fijis as superstitious decoration  
Were and as yet are  
Navigational information-storing devices,  
Being stored, for instance,  
As star-pattern combs in their hair,  
As rings around their necks,  
Or as multiple bracelets  
Mounted on their two arms and two legs,  
And multiple rings  
Upon the four fingers of their hands.  
They had thirteen columns of slidable counters,  
One neck, eight fingers, two arms, two legs.  
Most of the earliest known abacuses  
Also have thirteen columns of ring (bead) counters  
Which became more convenient to manipulate and retain  
When rib-bellied ships  
Supplanted the open raft and catamaran.  
Once the mathematical conceptioning  
Of sliding rings on thirteen columns  
Had been evolved by the navigators, traders, magicians,  
It was no trick at all  
To reproduce the thirteen-column system  
In a wooden frame with bamboo slide columns.  
  
By virtue of their ability to go  
From the known here to the popularly unknown there,  
The navigators were able to psychologically control  
Their local island chieftains.  
If a chieftain needed a miracle  
To offset diminishing credit by his people,  
He could confront them with his divine power  
By exhibiting some object they had never seen before,  
Because it was nonexistent  
On their particular island.  
All the chieftain had to do  
Was to ask the navigators  
To exercise their mysterious ability  
To disappear at sea  
And return days later with an unfamiliar object.  
But the navigators kept secret  
Their mathematical knowledge  
Of offshore celestial navigation  
And the lands they thus were able to reach.  
  
To the landed chieftains  
The seagoing navigators were mysterious priests.  
The South Seas navigators lived and as yet live  
Absolutely apart from the chieftains and the tribe  
The "priests" taught only their sons about navigation  
And they did so only at sea.  
A new era dawned  
For humanity on our planet  
When the Polynesians learned  
How to sail zigzaggingly to windward  
Into the prevailing west-to-east winds.  
Able to sail westward__  
Able to follow the Sun__  
At far greater sustainable  
(All day and all night, day after day)  
Sailing speeds than those attainable  
By paddling or rowing into head seas;  
Having for all time theretofore drifted  
In predominantly eastward windblown directions,  
Or gone aimlessly where ocean currents bore them,  
Yielding to the inevitable  
From-west-to-east elements  
Bearing them to the American west coasts  
And to all the Pacific islands  
Throughout the previous _x_ millions of years.  
  
Whereas the Southern Hemisphere ocean  
Was dominated by the west-east "Roaring Forties,"  
The Polynesians when entering the Northern Hemisphere  
Were advantaged not only by their ability  
To sail into the wind,  
But also by the east-west counter-currents  
Of the tropical westward trade winds,  
Which they discovered and  
Called so because they made it possible  
To go back where man had previously been  
And thus to integrate world resources.  
Thus the secretly held navigational capability  
And knowledge of the elemental counting and astronomy  
Went westward from Polynesia  
Throughout Malaysia and to southern India,  
Across the Indian Ocean to Mesopotamia and Egypt  
And thence into the Mediterranean.  
The powerful priests of Babylon, Egypt, and Crete  
Were the progeny of mathematician navigators of the Pacific  
Come up upon the land  
To guide and miracle-ize the new kings  
Of the Western Worlds.  
Knowing all about boats,  
These navigator priests were the only people  
Who knew that the Earth is spherical,  
That the Earth is a closed system  
With its myriad resources chartable.  
But being water people,  
They kept their charts in their heads  
And relayed the information  
To their navigator progeny  
Exclusively in esoterical,  
Legendary, symbolical codings  
Embroidered into their chants.  
  
But some of their numbers  
Also sailed deliberately eastward  
Carrying their mathematical skills  
To west-coast America.  
  
The Mayans used base twenty in their numerical system  
By counting with both their fingers and toes.  
The number twenty often occurs  
In a "magically" strategic way.  
For an example  
We can look at symmetrical aggregates  
Of progressively assembled spheres  
Closest packed on a plane__a pool table.  
First take two balls and make them tangent.  
Tangent is the "closest"  
That spheres may come to one another.  
We may next nest a third ball  
In the valley between the first tangent two.  
Now each of the three spheres is tangent to two others  
And none can get closer to each other.  
These three make a triangle.  
There is no ball in the center  
Of the triangular group.  
We can now add three more balls to the first three  
By arranging them tangentially in a row  
Along one edge of the first three's triangle.  
As yet, all six balls are arranged  
As outside edges of the triangle.  
Not until we add a fourth row of balls  
Nested along one edge of the triangular aggregate  
Does a single ball become placed as the nuclear ball  
In the center of the triangular "patterned" ball pool-table array.  
Ten is the total number of balls  
In this first nuclear-ball-containing triangle:  
Nine surround the nuclear tenth ball.  
And since a triangle is a fundamental structural pattern,  
And since the triangular aggregate  
Of nine balls around a nuclear one  
Is a symmetrical array,  
Man's intuitive choice of "congruence in modulo ten"  
May have been more subtly conceived  
Than simply by coincidence  
With the ten digits of his hands.  
  
We will now see what happens experimentally  
When sailors stack coconut or orange cargoes  
Or when we stack planar groups of triangular aggregates of spheres  
On top of one another in such a manner that they will be  
Structurally stable without binding agents.  
  
First we will nest six balls  
In a closest-packed triangular planar array  
On top of the first triangularly arranged ten-ball aggregate.  
And on top of those six balls  
We can nest three more.  
We now have a total of nineteen balls.  
We may now nest one more topmost ball  
In the one "nest" of the three-ball triangle.  
We now have a symmetrical  
Tetrahedral aggregate  
Consisting of twenty balls  
Without any nuclear ball  
Occurring in the center  
Of the symmetrical tetrahedral pyramid of balls.  
We began our vertical stacking  
With a symmetrical base triangle of ten balls,  
And now we have a tetrahedron composed of twenty balls.  
Just as fingers alone may not have been the only reason  
For the choice of base ten,  
Fingers and toes together may not have been the only reason  
That the Mayan priests chose  
Congruence in modulo twenty  
Or that twenty was considered a magical number.  
It might have been the result of an intuitive understanding  
Of closest packing of spheres,  
Which is something much more fundamental.  
For unlike our fingers which lie in a row,  
The packing of twenty spheres  
That can be grouped symmetrically together without a nucleus  
Is a fundamentally significant phenomenon.  
In a tetrahedron composed of twenty balls  
There is no nucleus.  
This may be why twenty appears so abundantly  
In the different chemical element isotopes.  
And "twenty" is one of the "Magic Numbers"  
In the inventory of chemical-element isotopal abundancy in Universe.  
  
In order to position a nuclear ball in the center  
Of a symmetrical tetrahedral pyramid of balls,  
We need to add another or fifth nested layer of fifteen  
balls  
To one face of the tetrahedron of twenty.  
The total number of balls is then thirty-five,  
Of which one is the nuclear ball.  
If, however, we add four  
Progressively larger  
Triangular layers of balls  
To each of the four triangular faces  
Of the twenty-ball, no-nucleus tetrahedron,  
It will take exactly one hundred more balls  
To enclose the twenty-ball, no-nucleus tetrahedron__  
This makes a symmetrical tetrahedron  
Of one hundred and twenty balls.  
This symmetrical tetrahedron  
Is the largest symmetrical assembly  
Of closest-packed spheres nowhere containing  
Any two-layer-covered nuclear spheres  
That is experimentally demonstrable.  
In the external affairs of spheres  
Such omnidimensional spherical groupings  
Of one hundred and twenty same-size balls  
Without a nucleus ball  
Can be logically identified  
With the internal affairs  
Of individual spheres,  
Wherein we rediscovered  
The one hundred and twenty,  
Least-common-denominator,  
Right spherical triangles of the sphere,  
Which are archeologically documented  
As having been well known to the Babylonians'  
Come-out-upon-the-land-ocean,  
Navigator-high-priest mathematicians.  
  
The number 120 also appears as a "Magic Number"  
In the relative-abundance hierarchy  
Of chemical-element isotopes of Universe.  
One hundred and twenty accommodates  
Both the decimal and the duodecimal system  
(Ten multiplied by twelve).  
  
The Mayans too may have understood  
About the tetrahedral closest packing of spheres.  
They probably made such tetrahedra  
With symmetrically closest-packed stacks of oranges.  
  
The twentieth-century fruit-store man  
Spontaneously stacks his spherical fruits  
In such closest-packed  
Stacking and nesting arrays.  
But the physicists didn't pay any attention  
To the fruit-store man until 1922.  
Then for the first time physicists  
Called the tetrahedral stacks of fruit  
"Closest packing of spheres."  
For centuries past  
The numerologists had paid attention  
To the closest packing of spheres In tetrahedral pyramids,  
But were given the academic heave-ho  
When in the mid-nineteenth century  
Physicists abandoned the concept of models.  
We have seen  
That there are unique or cardinal names  
For the concepts one through twelve  
In England and Germany,  
And for the concepts one through sixteen in France,  
But that after that they simply repeat  
In whatever congruence modulos  
They happen to be working.  
The Arabic numerals as well as their names  
Are unique and stand alone  
Only from zero through nine.  
However, eleven is the result of two ones__11,  
And twelve is similarly fashioned from two  
Previously given symbols,  
Namely, one and two__12.  
  
But certain numbers  
Such as prime numbers  
Have their own cosmic integrity  
And therefore ought to be integrally expressed.  
What the numerologist does  
Is to add numerals horizontally (120=1+2+0=3)  
Until they are all consolidated into one integer.  
Numerologists have also assigned  
To the letters of the alphabet  
Corresponding numbers: A is one, B is two, C is three, etc.  
Numerologists wishfully assume  
That they can identify  
Characteristics of people  
By the residual integer  
Derived from integrating  
All of the integers,  
(Which integers  
They speak of as digits,  
Identifying with the fingers of their hands,  
That is, their fingers.)  
Corresponding to all the letters  
In the individual's complete set of names.  
Numerologists do not pretend to be scientific.  
They are just fascinated  
With correspondence of their key digits  
With various happenstances of existence.  
They have great fun  
Identifying events and things  
And assuming significant insights  
Which from time to time  
Seem well justified,  
But what games numerologists  
Chose to play with these tools  
May or may not have been significant.  
Possibly by coincidence, however,  
And possibly because of number integrity itself  
Some of the integer intergrating results  
Are found to correspond elegantly  
With experimentally proven, physical laws  
And have subsequently proven to be  
Infinitely reliable.  
Half a century ago I became interested in seeing  
How numerologists played their games.  
I found myself increasingly intrigued  
And continually integrating digits.

