##### 1120.01
One roll of paper being unrolled from any one fixed axis wraps up all the faces of a tetrahedron. Two rolls of paper being unrolled from two axes perpendicular to one another wrap up all the faces of the octahedron. Three rolls of paper being unrolled from three axes3* wrap up all the faces of the icosahedron.

(Footnote 3: The six axes of the icosahedron are using the 12 vertexes coming together at 63° 26' to each other.)
##### 1120.02
If the paper were transparent and there were ruled lines on the transparent paper at uniform single intervals, the single lines of the transparent paper wrapping up the tetrahedron will enclose the tetrahedron without any of the lines crossing one another. In wrapping up the octahedron with two rolls of such transparent paper, the lines cross__ making a grid of diamonds. Wrapping the icosahedron with the three rolls of transparent, parallel-ruled paper, a three-way grid of omnitriangulation appears.
##### 1120.03
The wrapping of the six-edged tetrahedron with the single roll of paper leaves two opposite edges open, i.e., uncovered by the wrapping-paper roll. The other four opposite edges are closed, i.e., covered by the wrapping-paper roll.
##### 1120.04
The wrapping of the 12-edged octahedron with two rolls of paper leaves two sets of opposite edges open. The other eight opposite edges are closed.
##### 1120.05
The wrapping of the 30-edged icosahedron with three rolls of paper leaves three pairs of opposite edges open or uncovered. To cover those open edges, we need two more rolls. With five wrappings, all 30 edges become enclosed: with five wrappings, 10 faces are double-covered and 10 faces are triple-covered. Only the triple-covered have omnitriangular gridding by the parallel ruled lines. Thus we see that we need a sixth wrapping to make the omnitriangulated three-way grid. At the fifth wrapping, the three- way grid appears about the north and south poles with only a two-way grid on the equatorial triangles. The whole three-way grid six-times rewrapping in omnitriangular gridding at any desired frequency of subdivisioning can thus be accomplished with only one type of continuing, parallel-ruled strip.
##### 1120.06
Wrapping relates to the mid-edges of prime structural systems.
##### 1120.07
It takes three wrappings on three axes to produce the three-way grid on every face of a tetrahedron.
##### 1120.08
Wrapping of the octahedron with two rolls of paper left two opposite edges open. Two strips covered all the faces. Three strips covered all the edges. But a fourth strip is needed to complete the omnitriangulation of each face of the octahedron. (Compare the four axes of the octahedron with the eight faces perpendicular to the center of volume of the octahedron. We are dealing with the axes of the mid-faces.) There are four unique ways to wrap an octahedron from a roll. The three-way grid for each face requires four-way wrappings.
##### 1120.09
If we take a transparent sheet of paper whose width is the altitude of the equilateral triangles of the three universal prime structures, both of the edges can be stepped off with vectors of the same length. This produces a series of opposing, regular, uniform, equilateral triangles. The altitude of the equilateral triangle is the width of the transparent paper ruled with parallel lines parallel to the edges of the roll. Along the edge of one side of this roll, we step off increments the same length as the basic vectors of the triangles. We take the midpoint of the first triangle and drop a perpendicular across to the opposite edge of the roll. We step off increments of the same basic vector length. But the step-offs are staggered with the vertex of one triangle opposite the mid-edge of the other.
##### 1120.10 
This is how the lines of the tetrahedron keep wrapping up like a spool. That is why in the tetrahedron the axes are all the mid-edges of the poles. One polar pair of opposite edges is left open because the system is polarized; therefore, you need the three wrappings__one to cover all the faces, the second to cover all the edges, and the third for omnitriangulation. Three axes = three-way grid = three vectors for every vertex.
##### 1120.11
A single wrapping defines the octahedron even though two faces are left uncovered. It is polarized by the empty opposite triangles. One-half vector lacks rigidity. The interference of two planes is required for the spin. But we have to deal with open edges as well as with open faces. The figure will stand stably because six of the 12 edges are double-spin, with two edges coming together in dihedral angles.
##### 1120.12
Because one preomnitriangulated strip whose width exactly equals the altitude of the tetrahedron can completely spool-wrap all four faces of the tetrahedron, and because a tetrahedron so wrapped has an axis running perpendicular to__and outward through__the two mid-unwrapped-edges of the tetrahedron spool, such a spool may be endlessly wrapped, being a tetrahedron and an omnidirectionally closed system; ergo all the data of evoluting inwardly and outwardly in observable Universe and its scenario of intertransformings could be continuously rephotographed with each cycle and could thus be fed linearly into__and stored in__a computer in the most economical manner to be recalled and rerun, thus coping with all manner of superimpositions and inclusions at recorded dial distances inward and outward as a minimal-simplicity device.